pages/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Transformations Python API

This is the additional API documentation for `mgp.py`  which contains
definitions of the public Transformation Python API provided by Memgraph. At the
core, this is a wrapper around the **[C API](/data-streams/transformation-modules/c-api)**. This source file can
be found in the Memgraph installation directory, under `python_support`. On the
standard Debian installation, this will be under
`/usr/lib/memgraph/python_support`.

<Callout type="warning"> 

**NOTE:** This part of the documentation is still under development. An updated
version will soon be available.

</Callout>

<Callout> 

For an example how to implement transformation modules in Python with Memgraph Lab, check out
this [tutorial](/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka#2-create-a-transformation-module).

Below, you can find [transformation examples of different format
messages](/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api#transformation-examples-of-different-format-messages) such as JSON,
Avro and Protobuf.

</Callout>

## `mgp.transformation(func)`
Transformation modules in Python have to follow certain rules in order to work:
1. The transformation module is a Python function
2. The function has to be *decorated* with a **@mgp.transformation** decorator
3. The function can have 1 or 2 arguments
  - one of type `mgp.Messages` (required)
  - one of type `mgp.TransCtx` (optional)
4. The function has to return an `mgp.Record` in the following form:
  - `mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map])`
  - the return type can also be an **iterable** of `mgp.Record`s, but not a
    generator

### Examples
```python
import mgp

@mgp.transformation
def transformation(context: mgp.TransCtx,
                   messages: mgp.Messages
                   ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        payload_as_str = message.payload().decode("utf-8")
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record(
            query=f"CREATE (n:MESSAGE {{timestamp: '{message.timestamp()}', payload: '{payload_as_str}', topic: '{message.topic_name()}'}})",
            parameters=None))

    return result_queries
```
This transformation extracts the interesting members of each `mgp.Message` and
stores them in query `Record`, which wraps a `CREATE` clause with all the
interesting members (timestamp, payload, etc.) and an empty parameter list.

Any errors can be reported by raising an Exception.

## `class mgp.Message(message)`
Bases: `object`

Represents a single message. You shouldn't store a `Message` globally.

### `is_valid()`
Returns true if the underlying `mgp.message` object is valid and can be
accessed.

### `payload()`
Returns the payload of the message. Raises an `InvalidMessageError` if
`is_valid()` is false.

### `topic_name()`
Returns the topic name of the underlying `mgp.message`. Raises an
`InvalidMessageError` if `is_valid()` is false.

### `key()`
Returns the key of the underlying `mgp.message` as bytes. Raises an
`InvalidMessageError` if `is_valid()` is false.

### `timestamp()`
Returns the timestamp of the underlying `mgp.message`. Raises an
`InvalidMessageError` if `is_valid()` is false.

## `class mgp.Messages(messages)`
Bases: `object`

Represents a list of messages passed to a transformation. You shouldn't store
`messages` globally .

### `is_valid()`
Returns true if the underlying `mgp.messages` object is valid and can be
accessed.

### `total_messages()`
Returns the number of `mgp.messages` contained. Raises `InvalidMessagesError` if
`is_valid()` is false.

### `message_at(id)`
Returns the underlying `mgp.message` at index `id`. Raises
`InvalidMessagesError` if `is_valid()` is false.

## `class mgp.TransCtx(graph)`
Bases: `object`

Context of a transformation being executed.

Access to a `TransCtx` is only valid during a single execution of a
transformation. You shouldn't store a `TransCtx` globally.

### `graph()`
Raise `InvalidContextError` if context is invalid.

### `is_valid()`
Returns true if the context is valid and can be accessed.

## Transformation examples of different format messages

If you are using Kafka or Redpanda, below are transformation examples of
messages in the most common formats:

- **[JSON](#json)**
- **[Avro](#avro)**
- **[Protobuf](#protobuf)**


Once the transformation procedures have been written, the module needs to be
loaded into Memgraph.

### JSON

[JSON](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) (JavaScript Object Notation) is an
open standard file format and data interchange format that uses human-readable
text to store and transmit data objects consisting of attribute-value pairs and
arrays (or other serializable values). It is a common data format with a diverse
range of functionality in data interchange, including communication of web
applications with servers.

Let's assume we have the following schemas coming out of three topics:

```json
person = {
        "id" : int,
        "name": str,
        "address" : str,
        "mail": str,
    }
company = {
        "id" : int,
        "name" : str,
        "address" : str,
        "mail": str,
    }
works_at = {
            "person_id"  : int,
            "company_id" : int,
            "start_date" : date,
        }
```

The procedures within the Python transformation module that will transform the incoming
data into Cypher query would look like this:

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def person_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        message_json = json.loads(message.payload())
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (p:Person {{ id: ToInteger({message_json["id"]}), name: "{message_json["name"]}",
                address: "{message_json["address"]}", mail: "{message_json["mail"]}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))
    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        message_json = json.loads(message.payload())
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (c:Company {{ id: ToInteger({message_json["id"]}), name: "{message_json["name"]}",
                address: "{message_json["address"]}", mail: "{message_json["mail"]}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))
    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def employees_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        message_json = json.loads(message.payload())
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MATCH (p:Person ), (c:Company) 
                WHERE p.id = "{message_json["person_id"]}" AND c.id = "{message_json["company_id"]}" 
                MERGE (p)-[WORKS_AT: {{start_date: date({message_json["start_date"]})}}]->(c)'''  ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries
```

Upon creating three separate streams in Memgraph (one for each topic), and
ingesting the data, the graph schema looks like this:

![](/pages/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api/kafka-graph.png)

If you need help writing transformation modules, check out [the tutorial on
writing modules in
Python](/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka#2-create-a-transformation-module),
and [an example of a C transformation
procedure](/data-streams/transformation-modules/c-api#transformation-module-example). 

### Avro

If you want to import your data in Memgraph using Apache Avro serialization, you
need to know the [Avro
schema](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.11.1/getting-started-python/#defining-a-schema)
of your data. This is necessary for deserializing the data. Each schema contains
a single schema definition, so there should be a separate schema for each data
representation you want to import into Memgraph.

Avro data types will be flexibly mapped to the target schema, that is, Avro and
openCypher types do not need to match exactly. Use the table below for data type
mappings:

| Avro Data Type | Cypher Casting Function|
|----------------|------------------------|
| bool           | toBoolean              |
| float          | toFloat                |
| int            | toInteger              |


Let's assume we have the following schemas coming out of three topics:

```json
profile_schema = """ {
    "namespace": "example.avro",
    "name": "Person",
    "type": "record",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "id", "type": "int"},
        {"name": "name", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "address", "type": "string"}
        {"name": "mail", "type": "string"},
    ]
}"""

company_schema = """{
    "namespace": "example.avro",
    "name": "Company",
    "type": "record",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "id", "type": "int"},
        {"name": "name", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "address", "type": "string"}
        {"name": "mail", "type": "string"},
    ]
} """

works_at_schema = """ {
    "namespace": "example.avro",
    "name": "Works_At",
    "type": "record",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "person_id", "type": "int"},
        {"name": "company_id", "type": "int"}
        {"name": "start_date", "type": "date"}
    ]
}
"""
```

Data received by the Memgraph consumer is a byte array and needs to be
deserialized. The following method will deserialize data with the help of
Confluent Kafka:

```python
from confluent_kafka.schema_registry import SchemaRegistryClient
from confluent_kafka.schema_registry.avro import AvroDeserializer

def process_record_confluent(record: bytes, src: SchemaRegistryClient, schema: str):
    deserializer = AvroDeserializer(schema_str=schema, schema_registry_client=src)
    return deserializer(record, None) # returns dict

```

The procedures within the Python transformation module that will transform the incoming
data into Cypher query would look like this:

```python
import mgp

@mgp.transformation
def person_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_avro = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_avro.payload()
        message = process_record_confluent(msg_value, src= SchemaRegistryClient({'url': 'http://localhost:8081'}), schema=profile_schema)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (p:Person {{ id: ToInteger({message["id"]}), name: "{message["name"]}", address: "{message["address"]}", mail: "{message["mail"]}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_avro = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_avro.payload()
        message = process_record_confluent(msg_value, src= SchemaRegistryClient({'url': 'http://localhost:8081'}), schema=profile_schema)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (c:COmpany {{ id: ToInteger({message["id"]}), name: "{message["name"]}", address: "{message["address"]}", mail: "{message["mail"]}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_avro = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_avro.payload()
        message = process_record_confluent(msg_value, src= SchemaRegistryClient({'url': 'http://localhost:8081'}), schema=profile_schema)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MATCH (p:Person ), (c:Company) 
                WHERE p.id = "{message["person_id"]}" AND c.id = "{message["company_id"]}" 
                MERGE (p)-[WORKS_AT: {{start_date: date({message["start_date"]})}}]->(c)'''  ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

```

Upon creating three separate streams in Memgraph (one for each topic), and ingesting the data, the
graph schema looks like this:

![](/pages/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api/kafka-graph.png)


### Protobuf

Similar to Apache Avro,
[Protobuf](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers) is a method of
serializing structured data. A message format is defined in a `.proto` file, and
from it you can generate code in many languages, including Java, Python, C++,
C#, Go, and Ruby. Unlike Avro, Protobuf does not serialize schema with the
message. In order to deserialize the message, you need the schema in the
consumer. A benefit of working with Protobuf is the option to define multiple
messages in one `.proto` file.

Let's assume we have the following schemas coming out of three topics:

```protobuf
syntax = "proto3";

message Person {
    int64 id = 1;
    string name = 2;
    string address = 3;
    string mail = 4;
}

message Company {
    int64 id = 1;
    string name = 2;
    string address = 3;
    string mail = 4;
}

message WorksAt {
    int64 person_id = 1;
    int64 company_id = 2;
    string start_date = 3;
}

```
These schemas translate into the `.proto` file.
Before making your transformation script, it is necessary to [generate
code](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/pythontutorial#compiling-your-protocol-buffers)
from the `.proto` file.

Data received by the Memgraph consumer is a byte array and needs to be
deserialized. The following method will help you deserialize your data with the
help of Confluent Kafka:

```python
from confluent_kafka.schema_registry import SchemaRegistryClient
from confluent_kafka.schema_registry.protobuf import ProtobufDeserializer

import person_pb2 # proto file compiled into Python module

def process_record_protobuf(record: bytes, message_type: obj) -> dict:
    deserializer = ProtobufDeserializer(message_type)
    return deserializer(record, None)
```

`message_type` corresponds to the message defined in `.proto` file. This method
should be added to the transformation module.

The procedures within the Python transformation module that will transform the incoming
data into Cypher query would look like this:

```python
import mgp

@mgp.transformation
def person_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_pb = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_pb.payload()
        message = process_record_protobuf(msg_value, person_pb2.Person)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (p:Person {{ id: ToInteger({message.id}), name: "{message.name}", address: "{message.address}", mail: "{messag.mail}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_pb = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_pb.payload()
        message = process_record_protobuf(msg_value, person_pb2.Person)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (c:Copany {{ id: ToInteger({message.id}), name: "{message.name}", address: "{message.address}", mail: "{messag.mail}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_pb = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_pb.payload()
        message = process_record_protobuf(msg_value, person_pb2.Person)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MATCH (p:Person ), (c:Company) 
                WHERE p.id = "{message.person_id}" AND c.id = "{message.company_id}" 
                MERGE (p)-[WORKS_AT: {{start_date: date({message.start_date})}}]->(c)'''  ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries
```

Upon creating three separate streams in Memgraph (one for each topic), and ingesting the data, the
graph schema looks like this:

![](/pages/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api/kafka-graph.png)

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api.mdx, after:

---
title: Transformations Python API
description: Explore Memgraphs documentation and discover how to leverage the power of Python to manipulate and analyze data effectively. Unleash the potential of the Python API for advanced analytics.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Transformations Python API

This is the additional API documentation for `mgp.py`  which contains
definitions of the public Transformation Python API provided by Memgraph. At the
core, this is a wrapper around the **[C API](/data-streams/transformation-modules/c-api)**. This source file can
be found in the Memgraph installation directory, under `python_support`. On the
standard Debian installation, this will be under
`/usr/lib/memgraph/python_support`.

<Callout type="warning"> 

**NOTE:** This part of the documentation is still under development. An updated
version will soon be available.

</Callout>

<Callout> 

For an example how to implement transformation modules in Python with Memgraph Lab, check out
this [tutorial](/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka#2-create-a-transformation-module).

Below, you can find [transformation examples of different format
messages](/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api#transformation-examples-of-different-format-messages) such as JSON,
Avro and Protobuf.

</Callout>

## `mgp.transformation(func)`
Transformation modules in Python have to follow certain rules in order to work:
1. The transformation module is a Python function
2. The function has to be *decorated* with a **@mgp.transformation** decorator
3. The function can have 1 or 2 arguments
  - one of type `mgp.Messages` (required)
  - one of type `mgp.TransCtx` (optional)
4. The function has to return an `mgp.Record` in the following form:
  - `mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map])`
  - the return type can also be an **iterable** of `mgp.Record`s, but not a
    generator

### Examples
```python
import mgp

@mgp.transformation
def transformation(context: mgp.TransCtx,
                   messages: mgp.Messages
                   ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        payload_as_str = message.payload().decode("utf-8")
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record(
            query=f"CREATE (n:MESSAGE {{timestamp: '{message.timestamp()}', payload: '{payload_as_str}', topic: '{message.topic_name()}'}})",
            parameters=None))

    return result_queries
```
This transformation extracts the interesting members of each `mgp.Message` and
stores them in query `Record`, which wraps a `CREATE` clause with all the
interesting members (timestamp, payload, etc.) and an empty parameter list.

Any errors can be reported by raising an Exception.

## `class mgp.Message(message)`
Bases: `object`

Represents a single message. You shouldn't store a `Message` globally.

### `is_valid()`
Returns true if the underlying `mgp.message` object is valid and can be
accessed.

### `payload()`
Returns the payload of the message. Raises an `InvalidMessageError` if
`is_valid()` is false.

### `topic_name()`
Returns the topic name of the underlying `mgp.message`. Raises an
`InvalidMessageError` if `is_valid()` is false.

### `key()`
Returns the key of the underlying `mgp.message` as bytes. Raises an
`InvalidMessageError` if `is_valid()` is false.

### `timestamp()`
Returns the timestamp of the underlying `mgp.message`. Raises an
`InvalidMessageError` if `is_valid()` is false.

## `class mgp.Messages(messages)`
Bases: `object`

Represents a list of messages passed to a transformation. You shouldn't store
`messages` globally .

### `is_valid()`
Returns true if the underlying `mgp.messages` object is valid and can be
accessed.

### `total_messages()`
Returns the number of `mgp.messages` contained. Raises `InvalidMessagesError` if
`is_valid()` is false.

### `message_at(id)`
Returns the underlying `mgp.message` at index `id`. Raises
`InvalidMessagesError` if `is_valid()` is false.

## `class mgp.TransCtx(graph)`
Bases: `object`

Context of a transformation being executed.

Access to a `TransCtx` is only valid during a single execution of a
transformation. You shouldn't store a `TransCtx` globally.

### `graph()`
Raise `InvalidContextError` if context is invalid.

### `is_valid()`
Returns true if the context is valid and can be accessed.

## Transformation examples of different format messages

If you are using Kafka or Redpanda, below are transformation examples of
messages in the most common formats:

- **[JSON](#json)**
- **[Avro](#avro)**
- **[Protobuf](#protobuf)**


Once the transformation procedures have been written, the module needs to be
loaded into Memgraph.

### JSON

[JSON](https://www.json.org/json-en.html) (JavaScript Object Notation) is an
open standard file format and data interchange format that uses human-readable
text to store and transmit data objects consisting of attribute-value pairs and
arrays (or other serializable values). It is a common data format with a diverse
range of functionality in data interchange, including communication of web
applications with servers.

Let's assume we have the following schemas coming out of three topics:

```json
person = {
        "id" : int,
        "name": str,
        "address" : str,
        "mail": str,
    }
company = {
        "id" : int,
        "name" : str,
        "address" : str,
        "mail": str,
    }
works_at = {
            "person_id"  : int,
            "company_id" : int,
            "start_date" : date,
        }
```

The procedures within the Python transformation module that will transform the incoming
data into Cypher query would look like this:

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def person_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        message_json = json.loads(message.payload())
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (p:Person {{ id: ToInteger({message_json["id"]}), name: "{message_json["name"]}",
                address: "{message_json["address"]}", mail: "{message_json["mail"]}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))
    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        message_json = json.loads(message.payload())
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (c:Company {{ id: ToInteger({message_json["id"]}), name: "{message_json["name"]}",
                address: "{message_json["address"]}", mail: "{message_json["mail"]}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))
    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def employees_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        message_json = json.loads(message.payload())
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MATCH (p:Person ), (c:Company) 
                WHERE p.id = "{message_json["person_id"]}" AND c.id = "{message_json["company_id"]}" 
                MERGE (p)-[WORKS_AT: {{start_date: date({message_json["start_date"]})}}]->(c)'''  ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries
```

Upon creating three separate streams in Memgraph (one for each topic), and
ingesting the data, the graph schema looks like this:

![](/pages/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api/kafka-graph.png)

If you need help writing transformation modules, check out [the tutorial on
writing modules in
Python](/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka#2-create-a-transformation-module),
and [an example of a C transformation
procedure](/data-streams/transformation-modules/c-api#transformation-module-example). 

### Avro

If you want to import your data in Memgraph using Apache Avro serialization, you
need to know the [Avro
schema](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.11.1/getting-started-python/#defining-a-schema)
of your data. This is necessary for deserializing the data. Each schema contains
a single schema definition, so there should be a separate schema for each data
representation you want to import into Memgraph.

Avro data types will be flexibly mapped to the target schema, that is, Avro and
openCypher types do not need to match exactly. Use the table below for data type
mappings:

| Avro Data Type | Cypher Casting Function|
|----------------|------------------------|
| bool           | toBoolean              |
| float          | toFloat                |
| int            | toInteger              |


Let's assume we have the following schemas coming out of three topics:

```json
profile_schema = """ {
    "namespace": "example.avro",
    "name": "Person",
    "type": "record",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "id", "type": "int"},
        {"name": "name", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "address", "type": "string"}
        {"name": "mail", "type": "string"},
    ]
}"""

company_schema = """{
    "namespace": "example.avro",
    "name": "Company",
    "type": "record",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "id", "type": "int"},
        {"name": "name", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "address", "type": "string"}
        {"name": "mail", "type": "string"},
    ]
} """

works_at_schema = """ {
    "namespace": "example.avro",
    "name": "Works_At",
    "type": "record",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "person_id", "type": "int"},
        {"name": "company_id", "type": "int"}
        {"name": "start_date", "type": "date"}
    ]
}
"""
```

Data received by the Memgraph consumer is a byte array and needs to be
deserialized. The following method will deserialize data with the help of
Confluent Kafka:

```python
from confluent_kafka.schema_registry import SchemaRegistryClient
from confluent_kafka.schema_registry.avro import AvroDeserializer

def process_record_confluent(record: bytes, src: SchemaRegistryClient, schema: str):
    deserializer = AvroDeserializer(schema_str=schema, schema_registry_client=src)
    return deserializer(record, None) # returns dict

```

The procedures within the Python transformation module that will transform the incoming
data into Cypher query would look like this:

```python
import mgp

@mgp.transformation
def person_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_avro = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_avro.payload()
        message = process_record_confluent(msg_value, src= SchemaRegistryClient({'url': 'http://localhost:8081'}), schema=profile_schema)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (p:Person {{ id: ToInteger({message["id"]}), name: "{message["name"]}", address: "{message["address"]}", mail: "{message["mail"]}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_avro = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_avro.payload()
        message = process_record_confluent(msg_value, src= SchemaRegistryClient({'url': 'http://localhost:8081'}), schema=profile_schema)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (c:COmpany {{ id: ToInteger({message["id"]}), name: "{message["name"]}", address: "{message["address"]}", mail: "{message["mail"]}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_avro = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_avro.payload()
        message = process_record_confluent(msg_value, src= SchemaRegistryClient({'url': 'http://localhost:8081'}), schema=profile_schema)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MATCH (p:Person ), (c:Company) 
                WHERE p.id = "{message["person_id"]}" AND c.id = "{message["company_id"]}" 
                MERGE (p)-[WORKS_AT: {{start_date: date({message["start_date"]})}}]->(c)'''  ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

```

Upon creating three separate streams in Memgraph (one for each topic), and ingesting the data, the
graph schema looks like this:

![](/pages/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api/kafka-graph.png)


### Protobuf

Similar to Apache Avro,
[Protobuf](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers) is a method of
serializing structured data. A message format is defined in a `.proto` file, and
from it you can generate code in many languages, including Java, Python, C++,
C#, Go, and Ruby. Unlike Avro, Protobuf does not serialize schema with the
message. In order to deserialize the message, you need the schema in the
consumer. A benefit of working with Protobuf is the option to define multiple
messages in one `.proto` file.

Let's assume we have the following schemas coming out of three topics:

```protobuf
syntax = "proto3";

message Person {
    int64 id = 1;
    string name = 2;
    string address = 3;
    string mail = 4;
}

message Company {
    int64 id = 1;
    string name = 2;
    string address = 3;
    string mail = 4;
}

message WorksAt {
    int64 person_id = 1;
    int64 company_id = 2;
    string start_date = 3;
}

```
These schemas translate into the `.proto` file.
Before making your transformation script, it is necessary to [generate
code](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/pythontutorial#compiling-your-protocol-buffers)
from the `.proto` file.

Data received by the Memgraph consumer is a byte array and needs to be
deserialized. The following method will help you deserialize your data with the
help of Confluent Kafka:

```python
from confluent_kafka.schema_registry import SchemaRegistryClient
from confluent_kafka.schema_registry.protobuf import ProtobufDeserializer

import person_pb2 # proto file compiled into Python module

def process_record_protobuf(record: bytes, message_type: obj) -> dict:
    deserializer = ProtobufDeserializer(message_type)
    return deserializer(record, None)
```

`message_type` corresponds to the message defined in `.proto` file. This method
should be added to the transformation module.

The procedures within the Python transformation module that will transform the incoming
data into Cypher query would look like this:

```python
import mgp

@mgp.transformation
def person_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_pb = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_pb.payload()
        message = process_record_protobuf(msg_value, person_pb2.Person)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (p:Person {{ id: ToInteger({message.id}), name: "{message.name}", address: "{message.address}", mail: "{messag.mail}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_pb = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_pb.payload()
        message = process_record_protobuf(msg_value, person_pb2.Person)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MERGE (c:Copany {{ id: ToInteger({message.id}), name: "{message.name}", address: "{message.address}", mail: "{messag.mail}" }})''' ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries

@mgp.transformation
def company_transformation(messages: mgp.Messages) -> mgp.Record(query = str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message_pb = messages.message_at(i)
        msg_value = message_pb.payload()
        message = process_record_protobuf(msg_value, person_pb2.Person)
        result_queries.append(mgp.Record (
                query=f'''MATCH (p:Person ), (c:Company) 
                WHERE p.id = "{message.person_id}" AND c.id = "{message.company_id}" 
                MERGE (p)-[WORKS_AT: {{start_date: date({message.start_date})}}]->(c)'''  ,
                parameters=None
            ))

    return result_queries
```

Upon creating three separate streams in Memgraph (one for each topic), and ingesting the data, the
graph schema looks like this:

![](/pages/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api/kafka-graph.png)
