pages/memgraph-lab/configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration
description: When running Memgraph Lab with Docker or Docker Compose, you can configure it using the environment variables.
---

import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'


# Configuration

When running Memgraph Lab with Docker or Docker Compose, you can
configure it using the environment variables.

<Callout type="info">

Passing environment variables is **not supported** Memgraph Lab desktop applications.
To customize Memgraph Lab, run it with Docker.

</Callout>

## Changing configuration

When running Memgraph Lab with **Docker**, configure the environment variables
using the `docker run` command:

```bash
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name lab -e QUERY_MAX_LEN=10000 -e MODULE_NAME_MAX_LEN=2500 memgraph/lab
```

For **Docker Compose**, define the same environment variables within the
`environment` section of your service configuration in the `docker-compose.yml`
file:

```yaml
environment:
  - QUERY_MAX_LEN=10000
  - MODULE_NAME_MAX_LEN=2500
```

## List of environment variables

| Variable                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                             | Type       | Default            |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------|--------------------|
| `AUTH_NATIVE_IS_DISABLED`                | Enable or disable native authentication (username, password)                                                                                                            | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_IS_ENABLED`          | Enable or disable Entra ID SSO authentication via OIDC                                                                                                                  | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_DISPLAY_NAME`        | Entra ID OIDC display name "Sign in with `<name>`"                                                                                                                      | `string`   | `"Entra ID"`       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_ISSUER`              | Entra ID OIDC issuer                                                                                                                                                    | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_AUTHORIZATION_URL`   | Entra ID OIDC authorization URL                                                                                                                                         | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_TOKEN_URL`           | Entra ID OIDC token URL                                                                                                                                                 | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_USER_INFO_URL`       | Entra ID OIDC user info URL                                                                                                                                             | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_ID`           | Entra ID OIDC client ID                                                                                                                                                 | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_SECRET`       | Entra ID OIDC client secret                                                                                                                                             | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_CALLBACK_URL`        | Entra ID OIDC callback URL                                                                                                                                              | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_SCOPE`               | Entra ID OIDC scope                                                                                                                                                     | `string`   | `"openid profile"` |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_IS_ENABLED`              | Enable or disable Okta SSO authentication via OIDC                                                                                                                      | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_DISPLAY_NAME`            | Okta OIDC display name "Sign in with `<name>`"                                                                                                                          | `string`   | `"Okta"`           |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_ISSUER`                  | Okta OIDC issuer                                                                                                                                                        | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_AUTHORIZATION_URL`       | Okta OIDC authorization URL                                                                                                                                             | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_TOKEN_URL`               | Okta OIDC token URL                                                                                                                                                     | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_USER_INFO_URL`           | Okta OIDC user info URL                                                                                                                                                 | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_CLIENT_ID`               | Okta OIDC client ID                                                                                                                                                     | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET`           | Okta OIDC client secret                                                                                                                                                 | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_CALLBACK_URL`            | Okta OIDC callback URL                                                                                                                                                  | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_SCOPE`                   | Okta OIDC scope                                                                                                                                                         | `string`   | `"openid profile"` |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_IS_ENABLED`          | Enable or disable Entra ID SSO authentication via SAML                                                                                                                  | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_DISPLAY_NAME`        | Entra ID SAML display name "Sign in with `<name>`"                                                                                                                      | `string`   | `"Entra ID"`       |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_ENTRY_POINT`         | Entra ID SAML entry point                                                                                                                                               | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_CALLBACK_URL`        | Entra ID SAML callback URL                                                                                                                                              | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_APP_ID`              | Entra ID SAML application ID                                                                                                                                            | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_SIGNATURE_ALGORITHM` | Entra ID SAML signature algorithm                                                                                                                                       | `string`   | `"sha256"`         |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_IS_ENABLED`              | Enable or disable Okta SSO authentication via SAML                                                                                                                      | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_DISPLAY_NAME`            | Okta SAML display name "Sign in with `<name>`"                                                                                                                          | `string`   | `"Okta"`           |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_ENTRY_POINT`             | Okta SAML entry point                                                                                                                                                   | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_CALLBACK_URL`            | Okta SAML callback URL                                                                                                                                                  | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_ISSUER`                  | Okta SAML issuer                                                                                                                                                        | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_SIGNATURE_ALGORITHM`     | Okta SAML signature algorithm                                                                                                                                           | `string`   | `"sha256"`         |
| `ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_ORG_NAME`            | Enterprise license organization name. Refer to [documentation](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) for details on obtaining and configuring the license  | `string`   |                    |
| `ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_KEY`                 | Enterprise license key. Refer to [documentation](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) for details on obtaining and configuring the license                | `string`   |                    |
| `KEEP_ALIVE_TIMEOUT_MS`                  | Max time in milliseconds during which Lab will hold the connection                                                                                                      | `integer`  | `65000`            |
| `LOG_LEVEL`                              | Set the log level: `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`.                                                                                                                    | `string`   | `"info"`           |
| `LOG_IS_ENABLED`                         | Enable or disable logging                                                                                                                                               | `boolean`  | `true`             |
| `LOG_IS_PRETTY_PRINT`                    | Pretty print logs and error stacktraces in multi-line JSON format                                                                                                       | `boolean`  | `true`             |
| `LOG_CONTEXT_IS_ENABLED`                 | Enable or disable logging of context information (e.g., identifiers, input data, output data)                                                                           | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `LOG_STACKTRACE_IS_ENABLED`              | Enable or disable error stacktraces in the logs                                                                                                                         | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `MODULE_CONTENT_MAX_LEN`                 | Max length of a query module content                                                                                                                                    | `integer`  | `50000`            |
| `MODULE_NAME_MAX_LEN`                    | Max length of the query module name                                                                                                                                     | `integer`  | `1000`             |
| `MODULE_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`           | State of module validation                                                                                                                                              | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `NODE_LABEL_MAX_LEN`                     | Max length of the node label                                                                                                                                            | `integer`  | `1000`             |
| `NODE_LABEL_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`       | State of node label validation                                                                                                                                          | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `NODE_PROPERTY_MAX_LEN`                  | Max length of the node property                                                                                                                                         | `integer`  | `1000`             |
| `NODE_PROPERTY_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`    | State of node property validation                                                                                                                                       | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `QUERY_MAX_LEN`                          | Max length of a Cypher query                                                                                                                                            | `integer`  | `5000`             |
| `QUERY_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`            | State of query validation                                                                                                                                               | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `QUICK_CONNECT_IS_DISABLED`              | State of quick connect feature                                                                                                                                          | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST`                  | Host address for quick connect                                                                                                                                          | `string`   | `"127.0.0.1"`      |
| `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT`                  | Port for quick connect                                                                                                                                                  | `integer`  | `7687`             |
| `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_IS_ENCRYPTED`          | Turn SSL on/off for quick connect                                                                                                                                       | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `PORT`                                   | Lab app default listening port                                                                                                                                          | `integer`  | `3000`             |
| `REQUEST_BODY_LIMIT_MB`                  | Limit for request body size in MB                                                                                                                                       | `integer`  | `20`               |
| `SSL_IS_ENABLED`                         | Enable or disable SSL                                                                                                                                                   | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `SSL_CERT_PATH`                          | Path to SSL certificate to be used                                                                                                                                      | `string`   | `./ssl/cert.pem`   |
| `SSL_KEY_PATH`                           | Path to SSL key to be used                                                                                                                                              | `string`   | `./ssl/key.pem`    |
| `STORAGE_MG_HOST`                        | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph host for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                            | `string`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_PORT`                        | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph port for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                            | `number`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_IS_ENCRYPTED`                | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph SSL on/off for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                      | `boolean`  |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_DATABASE_NAME`               | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph database name for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                   | `string`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_USERNAME`                    | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph username for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                        | `string`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_PASSWORD`                    | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph password for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                        | `string`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS`          | `(Enterprise only)` Connection timeout in milliseconds for remote storage                                                                                               | `integer`  | `10000`            |
| `STREAM_NAME_MAX_LEN`                    | Max length of the stream name                                                                                                                                           | `integer`  | `500`              |
| `STREAM_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`           | State of stream validation                                                                                                                                              | `boolean`  | `false`            |

<CommunityLinks/>

Commit message:

Add Lab fixes/todos (#1229)
* Add Lab fixes/todos

* update installation and deployment

* update collections

* update gss

* update sso

* update sharing features and config

* update enterprise flow

* updates

* update enterprise flow

pages/memgraph-lab/configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration
description: When running Memgraph Lab with Docker or Docker Compose, you can configure it using the environment variables.
---

import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'


# Configuration

When running Memgraph Lab with Docker or Docker Compose, you can
configure it using the environment variables.

<Callout type="info">

Passing environment variables is **not supported** Memgraph Lab desktop applications.
To customize Memgraph Lab, run it with Docker.

</Callout>

## Changing configuration

When running Memgraph Lab with **Docker**, configure the environment variables
using the `docker run` command:

```bash
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name lab -e QUERY_MAX_LEN=10000 -e MODULE_NAME_MAX_LEN=2500 memgraph/lab
```

For **Docker Compose**, define the same environment variables within the
`environment` section of your service configuration in the `docker-compose.yml`
file:

```yaml
environment:
  - QUERY_MAX_LEN=10000
  - MODULE_NAME_MAX_LEN=2500
```

### Adding Memgraph Enterprise license

Some Memgraph Lab features require a [valid Memgraph Enterprise
license](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) **configured on the
Lab side**. Ensure that you configure the following environment variables when
running Lab with Docker:

| Variable                      | Description                          | Type       |
|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------|
| `ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_ORG_NAME` | Enterprise license organization name | `string`   |
| `ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_KEY`      | Enterprise license key               | `string`   |

For example:

```
docker run \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  -e ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_ORG_NAME="My company" \
  -e ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_KEY="key..." \
  memgraph/lab
```

<Callout type="info">
Since Memgraph Lab is only configurable via Docker, features that require a
valid Memgraph Enterprise license are available only in a Docker environment.
</Callout>

## List of environment variables

| Variable                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                             | Type       | Default            |
|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------|--------------------|
| `AUTH_NATIVE_IS_DISABLED`                | Enable or disable native authentication (username, password)                                                                                                            | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_IS_ENABLED`          | Enable or disable Entra ID SSO authentication via OIDC                                                                                                                  | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_DISPLAY_NAME`        | Entra ID OIDC display name "Sign in with `<name>`"                                                                                                                      | `string`   | `"Entra ID"`       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_ISSUER`              | Entra ID OIDC issuer                                                                                                                                                    | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_AUTHORIZATION_URL`   | Entra ID OIDC authorization URL                                                                                                                                         | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_TOKEN_URL`           | Entra ID OIDC token URL                                                                                                                                                 | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_USER_INFO_URL`       | Entra ID OIDC user info URL                                                                                                                                             | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_ID`           | Entra ID OIDC client ID                                                                                                                                                 | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_CLIENT_SECRET`       | Entra ID OIDC client secret                                                                                                                                             | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_CALLBACK_URL`        | Entra ID OIDC callback URL                                                                                                                                              | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_ENTRA_ID_SCOPE`               | Entra ID OIDC scope                                                                                                                                                     | `string`   | `"openid profile"` |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_IS_ENABLED`              | Enable or disable Okta SSO authentication via OIDC                                                                                                                      | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_DISPLAY_NAME`            | Okta OIDC display name "Sign in with `<name>`"                                                                                                                          | `string`   | `"Okta"`           |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_ISSUER`                  | Okta OIDC issuer                                                                                                                                                        | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_AUTHORIZATION_URL`       | Okta OIDC authorization URL                                                                                                                                             | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_TOKEN_URL`               | Okta OIDC token URL                                                                                                                                                     | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_USER_INFO_URL`           | Okta OIDC user info URL                                                                                                                                                 | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_CLIENT_ID`               | Okta OIDC client ID                                                                                                                                                     | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_CLIENT_SECRET`           | Okta OIDC client secret                                                                                                                                                 | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_CALLBACK_URL`            | Okta OIDC callback URL                                                                                                                                                  | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_OIDC_OKTA_SCOPE`                   | Okta OIDC scope                                                                                                                                                         | `string`   | `"openid profile"` |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_IS_ENABLED`          | Enable or disable Entra ID SSO authentication via SAML                                                                                                                  | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_DISPLAY_NAME`        | Entra ID SAML display name "Sign in with `<name>`"                                                                                                                      | `string`   | `"Entra ID"`       |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_ENTRY_POINT`         | Entra ID SAML entry point                                                                                                                                               | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_CALLBACK_URL`        | Entra ID SAML callback URL                                                                                                                                              | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_APP_ID`              | Entra ID SAML application ID                                                                                                                                            | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_ENTRA_ID_SIGNATURE_ALGORITHM` | Entra ID SAML signature algorithm                                                                                                                                       | `string`   | `"sha256"`         |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_IS_ENABLED`              | Enable or disable Okta SSO authentication via SAML                                                                                                                      | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_DISPLAY_NAME`            | Okta SAML display name "Sign in with `<name>`"                                                                                                                          | `string`   | `"Okta"`           |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_ENTRY_POINT`             | Okta SAML entry point                                                                                                                                                   | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_CALLBACK_URL`            | Okta SAML callback URL                                                                                                                                                  | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_ISSUER`                  | Okta SAML issuer                                                                                                                                                        | `string`   |                    |
| `AUTH_SAML_OKTA_SIGNATURE_ALGORITHM`     | Okta SAML signature algorithm                                                                                                                                           | `string`   | `"sha256"`         |
| `ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_ORG_NAME`            | Enterprise license organization name. Refer to [documentation](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) for details on obtaining and configuring the license  | `string`   |                    |
| `ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_KEY`                 | Enterprise license key. Refer to [documentation](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) for details on obtaining and configuring the license                | `string`   |                    |
| `KEEP_ALIVE_TIMEOUT_MS`                  | Max time in milliseconds during which Lab will hold the connection                                                                                                      | `integer`  | `65000`            |
| `LOG_LEVEL`                              | Set the log level: `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`.                                                                                                                    | `string`   | `"info"`           |
| `LOG_IS_ENABLED`                         | Enable or disable logging                                                                                                                                               | `boolean`  | `true`             |
| `LOG_IS_PRETTY_PRINT`                    | Pretty print logs and error stacktraces in multi-line JSON format                                                                                                       | `boolean`  | `true`             |
| `LOG_CONTEXT_IS_ENABLED`                 | Enable or disable logging of context information (e.g., identifiers, input data, output data)                                                                           | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `LOG_STACKTRACE_IS_ENABLED`              | Enable or disable error stacktraces in the logs                                                                                                                         | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `MODULE_CONTENT_MAX_LEN`                 | Max length of a query module content                                                                                                                                    | `integer`  | `50000`            |
| `MODULE_NAME_MAX_LEN`                    | Max length of the query module name                                                                                                                                     | `integer`  | `1000`             |
| `MODULE_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`           | State of module validation                                                                                                                                              | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `NODE_LABEL_MAX_LEN`                     | Max length of the node label                                                                                                                                            | `integer`  | `1000`             |
| `NODE_LABEL_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`       | State of node label validation                                                                                                                                          | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `NODE_PROPERTY_MAX_LEN`                  | Max length of the node property                                                                                                                                         | `integer`  | `1000`             |
| `NODE_PROPERTY_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`    | State of node property validation                                                                                                                                       | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `QUERY_MAX_LEN`                          | Max length of a Cypher query                                                                                                                                            | `integer`  | `5000`             |
| `QUERY_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`            | State of query validation                                                                                                                                               | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `QUICK_CONNECT_IS_DISABLED`              | State of quick connect feature                                                                                                                                          | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST`                  | Host address for quick connect                                                                                                                                          | `string`   | `"127.0.0.1"`      |
| `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT`                  | Port for quick connect                                                                                                                                                  | `integer`  | `7687`             |
| `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_IS_ENCRYPTED`          | Turn SSL on/off for quick connect                                                                                                                                       | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `PORT`                                   | Lab app default listening port                                                                                                                                          | `integer`  | `3000`             |
| `REQUEST_BODY_LIMIT_MB`                  | Limit for request body size in MB                                                                                                                                       | `integer`  | `20`               |
| `SSL_IS_ENABLED`                         | Enable or disable SSL                                                                                                                                                   | `boolean`  | `false`            |
| `SSL_CERT_PATH`                          | Path to SSL certificate to be used                                                                                                                                      | `string`   | `./ssl/cert.pem`   |
| `SSL_KEY_PATH`                           | Path to SSL key to be used                                                                                                                                              | `string`   | `./ssl/key.pem`    |
| `STORAGE_MG_HOST`                        | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph host for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                            | `string`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_PORT`                        | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph port for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                            | `number`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_IS_ENCRYPTED`                | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph SSL on/off for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                      | `boolean`  |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_DATABASE_NAME`               | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph database name for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                   | `string`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_USERNAME`                    | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph username for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                        | `string`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_PASSWORD`                    | `(Enterprise only)` Memgraph password for the Lab remote storage                                                                                                        | `string`   |                    |
| `STORAGE_MG_CONNECT_TIMEOUT_MS`          | `(Enterprise only)` Connection timeout in milliseconds for remote storage                                                                                               | `integer`  | `10000`            |
| `STREAM_NAME_MAX_LEN`                    | Max length of the stream name                                                                                                                                           | `integer`  | `500`              |
| `STREAM_VALIDATION_IS_ENABLED`           | State of stream validation                                                                                                                                              | `boolean`  | `false`            |

<CommunityLinks/>
