pages/memgraph-lab/features.mdx, before:

---
title: Features
description: Learn about features Memgraph Lab offers.
---

# Memgraph Lab features 

Memgraph Lab provides a powerful and intuitive interface for working with graph
data, offering a range of features to streamline data import, visualization,
query execution and collaboration. Whether you're managing real-time data
streams, customizing graph layouts or sharing queries with your team, Memgraph
Lab enhances your workflow with an extensive set of tools.

## Available features

Memgraph Lab offers a range of features available under both the **Community**
and **Enterprise** licenses. Some features require that Memgraph is [configured
with an Enterprise license](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise),
while others depend on Memgraph Lab being deployed with the correct [environment
variables](/memgraph-lab/fundamentals/remote-storage#how-to-set-it-up) along
with a valid Enterprise license.

{/*TODO: update link to remote storage how to set it up*/}

Availability can also vary depending on the deployment type — Desktop and
Docker deployments may support different subsets of features, even within
the Community version.

For details on how to enable and configure each feature, refer to their
individual documentation pages listed in the table below.

| Feature                                                                                           | Description                                                                                 | Desktop 🖥️ | Docker (Lab Community) 🐳 | Docker (Lab Enterprise) 🐳 |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------:|:----------------------:|:------------------------:|
| [Collections](/memgraph-lab/features/collections)                                                 | Organize and save queries, visualizations, and configurations for quick access.            | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [CSV file import](/memgraph-lab/features/csv-file import)                                         | Easily load structured data from CSV files into Memgraph.                                  | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Graph Style Script (GSS)](/memgraph-lab/features/graph-style-script)                             | Customize the appearance of graph visualizations with reusable styling scripts.            | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [GraphChat](/memgraph-lab/features/graphchat)                                                     | Convert natural language into Cypher queries using AI-powered assistance.                  | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Layout](/memgraph-lab/features/layout)                                                           | Adjust graph visualizations dynamically for better readability and insights.               | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Monitoring](/memgraph-lab/features/monitoring)                                                   | Real-time monitoring of system, memory, and queries.                                       | 🔒         | 🔒                     | 🔒                       |
| Query modules                                                                                     | Extend functionality with custom Cypher procedures and algorithms.                         | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Run history](/memgraph-lab/features/run-history)                                                 | Access and re-run previously executed queries.                                             | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Sharing features](/memgraph-lab/features/sharing-features)                                       | Share queries and styles with your team.                                                   | ❌         | ❌                     | ✅                       |
| [Single Sign-On (SSO)](/memgraph-lab/features/single-sign-on)                                     | Enterprise SSO support via identity providers.                                             | ❌         | 🔒                     | 🔒                       |
| Stream management                                                                                 | Manage real-time data streams within Memgraph.                                             | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |

✅ = Available<br/>
🔒 = Memgraph Enterprise-only (requires Memgraph configured with the Enterprise license)<br/>
❌ = Not available / Not supported<br/>

Commit message:

Add Lab fixes/todos (#1229)
* Add Lab fixes/todos

* update installation and deployment

* update collections

* update gss

* update sso

* update sharing features and config

* update enterprise flow

* updates

* update enterprise flow

pages/memgraph-lab/features.mdx, after:

---
title: Features
description: Learn about features Memgraph Lab offers.
---
import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'


# Memgraph Lab features 

Memgraph Lab provides a powerful and intuitive interface for working with graph
data, offering a range of features to streamline data import, visualization,
query execution and collaboration. Whether you're managing real-time data
streams, customizing graph layouts or sharing queries with your team, Memgraph
Lab enhances your workflow with an extensive set of tools.

## Available features

Memgraph Lab offers a range of features available under both the **Community**
and **Enterprise** licenses. The table below lists all Memgraph Lab features and their availability across
different environments:
- **Desktop**: Installed from the [Memgraph Download
  Hub](https://memgraph.com/download#individual). This version is not
  configurable and does not support all Lab features.
- **Docker (Lab Community)**: Run using the Memgraph Lab Docker image from
  [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/memgraph/lab). It is configurable, but
  to access Enterprise features, you must set Memgraph Enterprise license
  environment variables.
- **Docker (Lab Enterprise)**: Same Docker image as above, but launched with the
  required [Memgraph Enterprise license environment
  variables](/memgraph-lab/configuration#adding-memgraph-enterprise-license).
  Fully configurable and supports all Memgraph Lab features, including
  Enterprise-only features.

| Feature                                                                                           | Description                                                                                 | Desktop 🖥️ | Docker (Lab Community) 🐳 | Docker (Lab Enterprise) 🐳 |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------:|:----------------------:|:------------------------:|
| [Collections](/memgraph-lab/features/collections)                                                 | Organize and save queries, visualizations, and configurations for quick access.            | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [CSV file import](/memgraph-lab/features/csv-file-import)                                         | Easily load structured data from CSV files into Memgraph.                                  | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [GraphChat](/memgraph-lab/features/graphchat)                                                     | Convert natural language into Cypher queries using AI-powered assistance.                  | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Graph schema](/memgraph-lab/features/graph-schema)                                               | TODO                  | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Graph Style Script (GSS)](/memgraph-lab/features/graph-style-script)                             | Customize the appearance of graph visualizations with reusable styling scripts.            | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Layout](/memgraph-lab/features/layout)                                                           | Adjust graph visualizations dynamically for better readability and insights.               | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Logs](/memgraph-lab/features/logs)                                                               | TODO             | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Monitoring](/memgraph-lab/features/monitoring)                                                   | Real-time monitoring of system, memory, and queries.                                       | 🔒         | 🔒                     | 🔒                       |
| [Query modules](/memgraph-lab/features/query-modules)                                                                                     | Extend functionality with custom Cypher procedures and algorithms.                         | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Run history](/memgraph-lab/features/run-history)                                                 | Access and re-run previously executed queries.                                             | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |
| [Sharing features](/memgraph-lab/features/sharing-features)                                       | Share queries and styles with your team.                                                   | ❌         | ❌                     | ✅                       |
| [Single Sign-On (SSO)](/memgraph-lab/features/single-sign-on)                                     | Enterprise SSO support via identity providers.                                             | ❌         | 🔒                     | 🔒                       |
| [Streams](/memgraph-lab/features/streams)                                                                                 | Manage real-time data streams within Memgraph.                                             | ✅         | ✅                     | ✅                       |

✅ = Available<br/>
🔒 = Available, but requires a [Memgraph Enterprise license enabled](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) on the Memgraph database.<br/>
❌ = Not available / Not supported<br/>


For details on how to enable and configure each feature, refer to their
individual documentation pages.

<CommunityLinks/>
