pages/memgraph-lab/querying.mdx, before:

---
title: Querying
description: Learn how to run queries in Memgraph Lab, explore query results, visualize your graph and interact with the database using Cypher.
---

import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'


# Querying

Memgraph Lab is a visual interface that simplifies interaction with the Memgraph
database. It provides powerful tools for writing, executing, and visualizing
Cypher queries with ease. This section covers everything you need to know about
querying in Memgraph Lab — from executing queries to customizing graph visuals.

You can run Cypher queries in Memgraph Lab from several sections:
1. [Query execution](#core-components): The main Cypher editor for writing and
   executing queries. From here, you can:
    - Run the selected or entire query.
    - Edit the Graph Style Script (GSS) to control how results are visualized.
    - Set custom parameters for your queries.
    - Share queries with your team.
2. [Run history](/memgraph-lab/features/run-history): Access and re-run
   previously executed queries. Each query opens in the Query execution view for
   further editing or inspection.
3. [Collections](/memgraph-lab/features/collections): Run queries embedded in
   Collections without needing to copy them back into the main editor.
   Collections offer a seamless query execution experience within a contextual
   grouping.
4. [GraphChat](/memgraph-lab/features/graphchat) - Interact with Memgraph using
   natural language. GraphChat, based on your input, picks one of the available
   tools backed by Cypher queries, which you can run directly in your preferred
   view, leading to the Query execution interface.

## Core components

The **Query execution** section is the primary interface for working with Cypher
in Memgraph Lab. It includes:
- [Cypher editor](#cypher-editor) – Write, edit, run or share your Cypher
  queries.
- [Graph Style editor](#graph-style-editor) – Customize the visual style of your
  graph results.
- [Parameters](#parameters) editor – Define and manage query parameters.
- [Query status bar](#query-status-bar) – View real-time feedback on query
  status and performance.
- [Query results](#query-results) panel – Visualize and inspect the returned
  graph or tabular data.
- [Query summary](#query-summary) – Get a breakdown of execution details,
  including runtime and metadata.


## Cypher editor

The **Cypher editor** is the interface for writing and executing queries in
Memgraph Lab. If you need help writing Cypher queries, check out the
[Querying](/querying) section in Memgraph documentation.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/cypher-editor.png)

It features a code suggestion tool that can help you with clause
completion and give information about signatures and parameters.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/suggestion.png)

### Run query

The **Run query** button executes the entire query written in the editor. This
is the standard method for running complete Cypher queries and retrieving
results from the database.​

Once you **Run** a query (by clicking a button or pressing **CTRL/CMD** +
**Enter**), you can **Cancel** it to [terminate the
transaction](/fundamentals/transactions#manage-transactions).

{<h4 className="custom-header">Run selected</h4>}

**Run selected** allows you to execute only a highlighted portion of your query.
It is particularly useful for testing and debugging specific segments of complex
queries without running the entire script. By selecting the desired portion and
clicking "Run Selected", you can isolate and evaluate individual components of
your query.​

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/run-selected.png)

<Callout>

If you encounter a request limit error `Uh oh! Something unexpected went wrong.
Please try again or contact Memgraph support. Details: request entity too large`
, you can try increasing the request limit with the environment variable
`REQUEST_BODY_LIMIT_MB`. The default value is 20, which means 20MB.

To change this setting, follow the instructions provided in the
[Configuration](/memgraph-lab/fundamentals/configuration) section.

</Callout>

### Share query

[Query sharing](/memgraph-lab/features/sharing-features#query-sharing) allows
users to create a shareable link for their Cypher query, Graph Style Script, and
query parameters with a single click. This enables seamless collaboration among
team members. You can share the full or selected query.

## Graph Style editor

In the **Graph Style editor** you can customize the graph results visualization
using the custom scripting language developer by the Memgraph team - [Graph
Style Script (GSS)](/memgraph-lab/features/graph-style-script). With GSS, you
can customize various visual aspects of your graph, including node colors,
sizes, shapes, and relationship styles. This level of customization enables you
to create tailored visual representations that align with your analytical needs.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/system-style.png)

When saving a style, the graph results of an executed query will be used as a
preview picture of the style. Custom styles can be defined as a default style
applied to all following query runs.

## Parameters

Memgraph Lab supports the use of [parameters](/querying/expressions#parameters)
within queries to enhance efficiency. By defining parameters, you can write
queries that accept variable inputs without altering the query structure. For
example:​

```cypher
MATCH (n {property: $value})
RETURN n;
```

In this query, `$value` is a parameter that can be assigned different values at
runtime. Utilizing parameters not only makes your queries more adaptable but
also improves performance by enabling query plan caching.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/parameters.png)


## Query status bar

The **Query status bar** in Memgraph Lab provides real-time feedback and essential
information about your queries.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/status-bar.png)

The bar shows the following:

- **Query execution status** - When the query has executed or failed, below the
Cypher editor, you can see a *Query successful* message or an error.
- [**Execution times**](#execution-times) - Lab full roundtrip time (ms) and
  Memgraph execution time (ms)
- **Returned objects count** - The query status bar also shows the number of
rows the query generated as well as nodes and relationships count the query
returned (if any).
- **Query actions** - From the Query status bar you can also copy the query to
your clipboard or add it to an existing or new
[collection](/memgraph-lab/features/collections).

When executing **multiple queries simultaneously**, the status bar allows you to
navigate through each result set, ensuring you can efficiently manage and
analyze multiple outputs.​

![query-1](/pages/data-visualization/querying/query-1.png)

![query-2](/pages/data-visualization/querying/query-2.png)


### Execution times

In the case of successful execution, the Lab returns the query execution times -
how much it took Lab to send the query to Memgraph and show results, and how
long it took Memgraph to execute the query.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/execution-times.png)

The **Lab full roundtrip time** indicates the total time from sending the query
to receiving and rendering the results in Memgraph Lab. This metric is crucial
for understanding the overall efficiency of your query execution and result
retrieval process.

The **Memgraph execution time** displays the time taken by Memgraph to execute
the query, helping you assess performance.​ For insights into optimizing
execution time, see the [querying best practices
guide](/querying/best-practices).​


## Query results

Memgraph Lab offers versatile options for viewing and analyzing query results,
catering to different analytical needs. Depending on the results generated by
the query, Memgraph Lab offers two results views:

- **Data results** - Presents results in a tabular format, displaying nodes,
relationships, and their properties in a structured manner. This view is ideal
for detailed data inspection and is particularly useful when dealing with large
datasets where a graphical representation may be overwhelming.​
- [**Graph results**](#graph-results) - Renders results as a graph
visualization, illustrating the nodes and relationships returned by the query.
This view is beneficial for understanding the structural and relational aspects
of your data.

Besides different results views, you can see the [Summary](#query-summary)
of the executed query, copy or download the results in the JSON, CSV or TSV
format and summary in the JSON format. You can also go fullscreen for better
visilibility of the results.

<Callout>
Table rows can be expanded to show additional information about entities.
</Callout>

### Graph results

Memgraph Lab utilizes the
[Orb library](https://github.com/memgraph/orb) created by the Memgraph team for
high-performance graph visualizations, ensuring a smooth and interactive
experience.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/graph-results.png)

<Callout>
When rendering a graph that exceeds the set rendering limits, which might take
considerable amount of time to preview, you will be asked if you want to proceed
with the graph visualization or switch to the data view. The rendering limit can
be set in the **Settings** section.
</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header">Exploring the graph</h4>}

When results are shown as a graph, you can click on each node or relationship to
see additional information in a property sidebar.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/property-sidebar.png)

You can also **Expand** a node to see its
relationships, **Collapse** a node to hide its relationships, or **Hide** the
node from the canvas. Besides clicking on a node and then on the button, you can
also expand and collapse nodes with a double-click.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/graph-results.png)

{<h4 className="custom-header">Graph customization</h4>}

To customize the appearance of the graph you can update the GSS in the [Graph
Style editor](#graph-style-editor) or change the **Display options** in the
property sidebar which you can access by clicking on a graph object you'd like
to customize.

Display options offers you the ability to change the color or text on display
for the selected graph object or all the graph objects with the same label or of
the same type.

In the bottom left corner of the graph, you can change the graph layout.
The available layout types are:

- Force layout (default)
- Tree layout
- Map layout

**Force layout (Default)** simulates physical forces between nodes. You can
**Enable physics**, which allows nodes to interact dynamically - pulling
apart or drawing closer based on the strength of their relationships.

In the top right corner, under Graph Preferences, you can configure:

- Collision radius - sets the margin radius around each node from its
  center.
- Repel force - defines how strongly nodes repel each other.
- Link distance - determines the minimum distance required between two
  connected nodes.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/layout-force.png)

**Tree layout** organizes nodes in a hierarchical structure. You can choose
the orientation: horizontal or vertical.

Additional customization options:

- Level gap - sets the spacing between different levels of hierarchy.
- Node gap - sets the spacing between nodes on the same level.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/layout-tree.png)

**Map layout** is enabled only if nodes contain geographical information. It
activates automatically when result nodes include numeric `lat` and `lng`
properties.
Nodes are positioned on a map according to their geographical coordinates.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/layout-map.png)

If latitude and longitude data are not stored in the default `lat` and `lng`
properties, you can use a Graph Style Script (GSS) to map alternative fields for
location tracking. For example:

```cpp
// nodes have .latitude and .longitude fields
Define(LATITUDE_FIELD, "latitude")
Define(LONGITUDE_FIELD, "longitude")

// In the case of numeric latitude and longitude properties, set them up for a switch to a map view
@NodeStyle And(IsNumber(Property(node, LATITUDE_FIELD)), IsNumber(Property(node, LONGITUDE_FIELD))) {
  latitude: Property(node, LATITUDE_FIELD)
  longitude: Property(node, LONGITUDE_FIELD)
}
```

## Query summary

After executing a query in Memgraph Lab, the query summary provides essential
metadata and insights into the execution process. This summary helps users
evaluate the performance, efficiency, and impact of their queries.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/query-summary.png)

The query summary shows important information involving:
- **Database impact statistics**: Displays key database impact metrics such -
  the number of hops traversed, the number of nodes and relationships created or
  delete, the number of labels added or removed, and the number of properties set.
- **Query performance breakdown (ms)**: For complex queries, Memgraph Lab
provides an execution plan that breaks down how the query was processed by the
database. This is the visual representation of the execution times from the
Query status bar. Having this kind of query performance breakdown can help users
optimize performance by identifying potential bottlenecks.
- **Server** - Information about the server address and Bolt protocol version
  used by the server.
- **Notifications** - If there are potential issues with the query, such as
missing indexes or inefficient query patterns, Memgraph Lab will provide
notifications and recommendations for optimization. For detailed guidelines on
query optimization, read the [querying best
practices](/querying/best-practices).
- **Query plan and profile** - Analyze how a query is executed by showing
  detailed information about the [query plan](/querying/query-plan) in a simple
  diagram. Additionally, profile the query to understand the impact of each
  operator. This can help you identify performance issues and speed up queries.

<CommunityLinks/>

Commit message:

Add Lab 3.5 release notes (#1355)
* new: Add Lab 3.5 release notes

* new: Add updates to the environment variables and SSO expiry

* new: Add multi-tenancy pages

* new: Add updates to the GraphChat models

* add a sentence

---------

Co-authored-by: Matea Pesic <80577904+matea16@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: matea16 <mateapesic@hotmail.com>

pages/memgraph-lab/querying.mdx, after:

---
title: Querying
description: Learn how to run queries in Memgraph Lab, explore query results, visualize your graph and interact with the database using Cypher.
---

import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'


# Querying

Memgraph Lab is a visual interface that simplifies interaction with the Memgraph
database. It provides powerful tools for writing, executing, and visualizing
Cypher queries with ease. This section covers everything you need to know about
querying in Memgraph Lab — from executing queries to customizing graph visuals.

You can run Cypher queries in Memgraph Lab from several sections:
1. [Query execution](#core-components): The main Cypher editor for writing and
   executing queries. From here, you can:
    - Run the selected or entire query.
    - Edit the Graph Style Script (GSS) to control how results are visualized.
    - Set custom parameters for your queries.
    - Share queries with your team.
2. [Run history](/memgraph-lab/features/run-history): Access and re-run
   previously executed queries. Each query opens in the Query execution view for
   further editing or inspection.
3. [Collections](/memgraph-lab/features/collections): Run queries embedded in
   Collections without needing to copy them back into the main editor.
   Collections offer a seamless query execution experience within a contextual
   grouping.
4. [GraphChat](/memgraph-lab/features/graphchat) - Interact with Memgraph using
   natural language. GraphChat, based on your input, picks one of the available
   tools backed by Cypher queries, which you can run directly in your preferred
   view, leading to the Query execution interface.

## Core components

The **Query execution** section is the primary interface for working with Cypher
in Memgraph Lab. It includes:
- [Cypher editor](#cypher-editor) – Write, edit, run or share your Cypher
  queries.
- [Graph Style editor](#graph-style-editor) – Customize the visual style of your
  graph results.
- [Parameters](#parameters) editor – Define and manage query parameters.
- [Query status bar](#query-status-bar) – View real-time feedback on query
  status and performance.
- [Query results](#query-results) panel – Visualize and inspect the returned
  graph or tabular data.
- [Query summary](#query-summary) – Get a breakdown of execution details,
  including runtime and metadata.


## Cypher editor

The **Cypher editor** is the interface for writing and executing queries in
Memgraph Lab. If you need help writing Cypher queries, check out the
[Querying](/querying) section in Memgraph documentation.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/cypher-editor.png)

It features a code suggestion tool that can help you with clause
completion and give information about signatures and parameters.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/suggestion.png)

### Run query

The **Run query** button executes the entire query written in the editor. This
is the standard method for running complete Cypher queries and retrieving
results from the database.​

Once you **Run** a query (by clicking a button or pressing **CTRL/CMD** +
**Enter**), you can **Cancel** it to [terminate the
transaction](/fundamentals/transactions#manage-transactions).

{<h4 className="custom-header">Run selected</h4>}

**Run selected** allows you to execute only a highlighted portion of your query.
It is particularly useful for testing and debugging specific segments of complex
queries without running the entire script. By selecting the desired portion and
clicking "Run Selected", you can isolate and evaluate individual components of
your query.​

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/run-selected.png)

<Callout>

If you encounter a request limit error `Uh oh! Something unexpected went wrong.
Please try again or contact Memgraph support. Details: request entity too large`
, you can try increasing the request limit with the environment variable
`REQUEST_BODY_LIMIT_MB`. The default value is 20, which means 20MB.

To change this setting, follow the instructions provided in the
[Configuration](/memgraph-lab/fundamentals/configuration) section.

</Callout>

### Share query

[Query sharing](/memgraph-lab/features/sharing-features#query-sharing) allows
users to create a shareable link for their Cypher query, Graph Style Script, and
query parameters with a single click. This enables seamless collaboration among
team members. You can share the full or selected query.

## Graph Style editor

In the **Graph Style editor** you can customize the graph results visualization
using the custom scripting language developer by the Memgraph team - [Graph
Style Script (GSS)](/memgraph-lab/features/graph-style-script). With GSS, you
can customize various visual aspects of your graph, including node colors,
sizes, shapes, and relationship styles. This level of customization enables you
to create tailored visual representations that align with your analytical needs.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/system-style.png)

When saving a style, the graph results of an executed query will be used as a
preview picture of the style. Custom styles can be defined as a default style
applied to all following query runs.

## Parameters

Memgraph Lab supports the use of [parameters](/querying/expressions#parameters)
within queries to enhance efficiency. By defining parameters, you can write
queries that accept variable inputs without altering the query structure. For
example:​

```cypher
MATCH (n {property: $value})
RETURN n;
```

In this query, `$value` is a parameter that can be assigned different values at
runtime. Utilizing parameters not only makes your queries more adaptable but
also improves performance by enabling query plan caching.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/parameters.png)


## Query status bar

The **Query status bar** in Memgraph Lab provides real-time feedback and essential
information about your queries.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/status-bar.png)

The bar shows the following:

- **Query execution status** - When the query has executed or failed, below the
Cypher editor, you can see a *Query successful* message or an error.
- [**Execution times**](#execution-times) - Lab full roundtrip time (ms) and
  Memgraph execution time (ms)
- **Returned objects count** - The query status bar also shows the number of
rows the query generated as well as nodes and relationships count the query
returned (if any).
- **Query actions** - From the Query status bar you can also copy the query to
your clipboard or add it to an existing or new
[collection](/memgraph-lab/features/collections).

When executing **multiple queries simultaneously**, the status bar allows you to
navigate through each result set, ensuring you can efficiently manage and
analyze multiple outputs.​

![query-1](/pages/data-visualization/querying/query-1.png)

![query-2](/pages/data-visualization/querying/query-2.png)


### Execution times

In the case of successful execution, the Lab returns the query execution times -
how much it took Lab to send the query to Memgraph and show results, and how
long it took Memgraph to execute the query.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/execution-times.png)

The **Lab full roundtrip time** indicates the total time from sending the query
to receiving and rendering the results in Memgraph Lab. This metric is crucial
for understanding the overall efficiency of your query execution and result
retrieval process.

The **Memgraph execution time** displays the time taken by Memgraph to execute
the query, helping you assess performance.​ For insights into optimizing
execution time, see the [querying best practices
guide](/querying/best-practices).​


## Query results

Memgraph Lab offers versatile options for viewing and analyzing query results,
catering to different analytical needs. Depending on the results generated by
the query, Memgraph Lab offers two results views:

- **Data results** - Presents results in a tabular format, displaying nodes,
relationships, and their properties in a structured manner. This view is ideal
for detailed data inspection and is particularly useful when dealing with large
datasets where a graphical representation may be overwhelming.​
- [**Graph results**](#graph-results) - Renders results as a graph
visualization, illustrating the nodes and relationships returned by the query.
This view is beneficial for understanding the structural and relational aspects
of your data.

Besides different results views, you can see the [Summary](#query-summary)
of the executed query, copy or download the results in the JSON, CSV or TSV
format and summary in the JSON format. You can also go fullscreen for better
visilibility of the results.

<Callout>
Table rows can be expanded to show additional information about entities.
</Callout>

### Graph results

Memgraph Lab utilizes the
[Orb library](https://github.com/memgraph/orb) created by the Memgraph team for
high-performance graph visualizations, ensuring a smooth and interactive
experience.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/graph-results.png)

<Callout>
When rendering a graph that exceeds the set rendering limits, which might take
considerable amount of time to preview, you will be asked if you want to proceed
with the graph visualization or switch to the data view. The rendering limit can
be set in the **Settings** section.
</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header">Exploring the graph</h4>}

When results are shown as a graph, you can click on each node or relationship to
see additional information in a property sidebar.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/property-sidebar.png)

You can also **Expand** a node to see its
relationships, **Collapse** a node to hide its relationships, or **Hide** the
node from the canvas. Besides clicking on a node and then on the button, you can
also expand and collapse nodes with a double-click.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/graph-results.png)

{<h4 className="custom-header">Graph customization</h4>}

To customize the appearance of the graph you can update the GSS in the [Graph
Style editor](#graph-style-editor) or change the **Display options** in the
property sidebar which you can access by clicking on a graph object you'd like
to customize.

Display options offers you the ability to change the color or text on display
for the selected graph object or all the graph objects with the same label or of
the same type.

In the bottom left corner of the graph, you can change the graph layout.
The available layout types are:

- Force layout (default)
- Tree layout
- Map layout

**Force layout (Default)** simulates physical forces between nodes. You can
**Enable physics**, which allows nodes to interact dynamically - pulling
apart or drawing closer based on the strength of their relationships.

In the top right corner, under Graph Preferences, you can configure:

- Collision radius - sets the margin radius around each node from its
  center.
- Repel force - defines how strongly nodes repel each other.
- Link distance - determines the minimum distance required between two
  connected nodes.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/layout-force.png)

**Tree layout** organizes nodes in a hierarchical structure. You can choose
the orientation: horizontal or vertical.

Additional customization options:

- Level gap - sets the spacing between different levels of hierarchy.
- Node gap - sets the spacing between nodes on the same level.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/layout-tree.png)

**Map layout** is enabled only if nodes contain geographical information. It
activates automatically when result nodes include numeric `lat` and `lng`
properties.
Nodes are positioned on a map according to their geographical coordinates.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/layout-map.png)

If latitude and longitude data are not stored in the default `lat` and `lng`
properties, you can use a Graph Style Script (GSS) to map alternative fields for
location tracking. For example:

```cpp
// nodes have .latitude and .longitude fields
Define(LATITUDE_FIELD, "latitude")
Define(LONGITUDE_FIELD, "longitude")

// In the case of numeric latitude and longitude properties, set them up for a switch to a map view
@NodeStyle And(IsNumber(Property(node, LATITUDE_FIELD)), IsNumber(Property(node, LONGITUDE_FIELD))) {
  latitude: Property(node, LATITUDE_FIELD)
  longitude: Property(node, LONGITUDE_FIELD)
}
```

## Query summary

After executing a query in Memgraph Lab, the query summary provides essential
metadata and insights into the execution process. This summary helps users
evaluate the performance, efficiency, and impact of their queries.

![](/pages/data-visualization/querying/query-summary.png)

The query summary shows important information involving:
- **Database impact statistics**: Displays key database impact metrics such -
  the number of hops traversed, the number of nodes and relationships created or
  delete, the number of labels added or removed, and the number of properties set.
- **Query performance breakdown (ms)**: For complex queries, Memgraph Lab
  provides an execution plan that breaks down how the query was processed by the
  database. This is the visual representation of the execution times from the
  Query status bar. Having this kind of query performance breakdown can help users
  optimize performance by identifying potential bottlenecks.
- **Server** - Information about the server address, Bolt protocol version
  used by the server, and the database name upon which the query was running
  (useful in [multi-tenant environments](/memgraph-lab/features/multi-tenancy)).
- **Notifications** - If there are potential issues with the query, such as
  missing indexes or inefficient query patterns, Memgraph Lab will provide
  notifications and recommendations for optimization. For detailed guidelines on
  query optimization, read the [querying best practices](/querying/best-practices).
- **Query plan and profile** - Analyze how a query is executed by showing
  detailed information about the [query plan](/querying/query-plan) in a simple
  diagram. Additionally, profile the query to understand the impact of each
  operator. This can help you identify performance issues and speed up queries.

<CommunityLinks/>
