pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links.mdx, before:

---
title: Memgraph direct download links
description: Access Memgraph direct download links all in a single page. Our documentation is committed to ensuring a smooth developer experience. 
---

import LinkClick from '/components/link-click/LinkClick'

# Memgraph direct download links

You can download all of the Memgraph database packages from the [Memgraph
Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/). If you need direct links for the
latest version of Memgraph database, take a look at the list below.

## Docker
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/docker/memgraph-2.17.0-docker.tar.gz" os="docker" distribution="docker-x86"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/docker-aarch64/memgraph-2.17.0-docker.tar.gz" os="docker" distribution="docker-x86"/>

## Linux

### Amazon Linux 2
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/amzn-2/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="amazon-2"/>

### CentOS
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/centos-7/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="centos-7"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/centos-9/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="centos-9"/>

### Debian
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/debian-11/memgraph_2.17.0-1_amd64.deb" os="linux" distribution="debian-11"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/debian-11-aarch64/memgraph_2.17.0-1_arm64.deb" os="linux" distribution="debian-11-aarch64"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/debian-12/memgraph_2.17.0-1_amd64.deb" os="linux" distribution="debian-12"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/debian-12-aarch64/memgraph_2.17.0-1_arm64.deb" os="linux" distribution="debian-12-aarch64"/>

### Fedora
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/fedora-38/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="fedora-38"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/fedora-39/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="fedora-39"/>

### Red Hat
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/centos-7/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="redhat-7"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/centos-9/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="redhat-9"/>

### Rocky
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/rocky-9.3/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="rocky-9"/>

### Ubuntu
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/ubuntu-20.04/memgraph_2.17.0-1_amd64.deb" os="linux" distribution="ubuntu-20"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/ubuntu-22.04/memgraph_2.17.0-1_amd64.deb" os="linux" distribution="ubuntu-22"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/ubuntu-22.04-aarch64/memgraph_2.17.0-1_arm64.deb" os="linux" distribution="ubuntu-22-aarch64"/>

Commit message:

Add a note about supported Linux distributions (#839)

pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links.mdx, after:

---
title: Memgraph direct download links
description: Access Memgraph direct download links all in a single page. Our documentation is committed to ensuring a smooth developer experience. 
---

import LinkClick from '/components/link-click/LinkClick'

# Memgraph direct download links

You can download all of the Memgraph database packages from the [Memgraph
Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/). If you need direct links for the
latest version of Memgraph database, take a look at the list below.

## Docker
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/docker/memgraph-2.17.0-docker.tar.gz" os="docker" distribution="docker-x86"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/docker-aarch64/memgraph-2.17.0-docker.tar.gz" os="docker" distribution="docker-x86"/>

## Linux

Memgraph can be run on the Linux distributions listed below.

### Amazon Linux 2
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/amzn-2/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="amazon-2"/>

### CentOS
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/centos-7/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="centos-7"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/centos-9/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="centos-9"/>

### Debian
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/debian-11/memgraph_2.17.0-1_amd64.deb" os="linux" distribution="debian-11"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/debian-11-aarch64/memgraph_2.17.0-1_arm64.deb" os="linux" distribution="debian-11-aarch64"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/debian-12/memgraph_2.17.0-1_amd64.deb" os="linux" distribution="debian-12"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/debian-12-aarch64/memgraph_2.17.0-1_arm64.deb" os="linux" distribution="debian-12-aarch64"/>

### Fedora
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/fedora-38/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="fedora-38"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/fedora-39/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="fedora-39"/>

### Red Hat
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/centos-7/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="redhat-7"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/centos-9/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="redhat-9"/>

### Rocky
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/rocky-9.3/memgraph-2.17.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" os="linux" distribution="rocky-9"/>

### Ubuntu
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/ubuntu-20.04/memgraph_2.17.0-1_amd64.deb" os="linux" distribution="ubuntu-20"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/ubuntu-22.04/memgraph_2.17.0-1_amd64.deb" os="linux" distribution="ubuntu-22"/>
- <LinkClick link="https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.17.0/ubuntu-22.04-aarch64/memgraph_2.17.0-1_arm64.deb" os="linux" distribution="ubuntu-22-aarch64"/>
