pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker.mdx, before:

---
title: Install Memgraph with Docker
description: Comprehend and master the use of Memgraph with Docker through our thorough documentation. A one-stop solution for graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'

# Install Memgraph with Docker

[Docker](https://www.docker.com) is a service that uses OS-level virtualization
to deliver software in packages that are called
[containers](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container).

Memgraph uses Docker because it is:

- Flexible
- Lightweight
- Portable - you can build locally or deploy to the cloud
- Runs on all platforms - Windows, Linux and macOS
- Deploys in Kubernetes

Memgraph bundles the database along with various analytical tools into distinct
Docker images. 

## Available Docker images

All Memgraph Docker images are available at [Memgraph's Docker
Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/memgraph). There you will find the exact Docker
image tags you can use to install Memgraph with. 

The main repositories are: 

- `memgraph/memgraph-mage` - includes Memgraph database, command-line interface
  [`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli) and [`MAGE`](/advanced-algorithms) graph
  algorithms library. If tagged with cuGraph, it also includes [NVIDIA cuGraph
      GPU-powered](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/cugraph) graph
      algorithms.
- `memgraph/memgraph` - includes Memgraph database and command-line interface
  [`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli).
- `memgraph/lab` - includes a web interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization) that helps you explore the data stored in Memgraph.

To use Memgraph, run
[`memgraph/memgraph-mage`](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#run-memgraph-mage-docker-image),
[`memgraph/memgraph-mage` +
cuGraph](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#run-memgraph-mage-docker-image--cugraph)
or
[`memgraph/memgraph`](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#run-memgraph-docker-image)
image. To query Memgraph, use the CLI mgconsole. If you prefer a visual user
interface to query Memgraph, run
[`memgraph/lab`](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#run-memgraph-lab-image)
image or [download Desktop
application](https://memgraph.com/download#individual) from Memgraph Download
hub and connect to the running Memgraph instance.

Memgraph and Memgraph Lab can be run as a multi-container application - **Memgraph
Platform**. To do that, run the above images as services with [Docker
Compose](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose).

### Run Memgraph MAGE Docker image

Install and run the `memgraph-mage` image using the following command:

```console
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-mage
```

You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) by running the following command in a new
terminal:

```terminal
docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
```

You can also connect to Memgraph instance using the [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization/user-manual), available for download from [Memgraph's
Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download), or using the [Memgraph Lab Docker image](#run-memgraph-lab-image). 

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

### Run Memgraph MAGE Docker image + cuGraph

<Steps>

{<h3>Check prerequisites</h3>}

To be able to run cuGraph analytics, make sure you have compatible
infrastructure first. The exact system requirements are available at the [NVIDIA
RAPIDS site](https://docs.rapids.ai/install#requirements), and include an NVIDIA
Pascal (or better) GPU and up-to-date CUDA & NVIDIA drivers.

You will also need to install:

- Official [NVIDIA driver](https://www.nvidia.com/download/index.aspx) for your operating system.
- To run on NVIDIA-powered GPUs, RAPIDS requires Docker CE v19.03+ and [nvidia-container-toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html).
- Legacy Docker CE v17-18 users requie the [nvidia-docker2 package](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Installation-(version-2.0)).

{<h3>Install and run Memgraph</h3>}

Install and run Memgraph using the following command:

```console
docker run --rm --gpus all -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 memgraph/memgraph-mage:1.3-cugraph-22.02-cuda-11.5
```

Check the latest versions of cuGraph Docker images at [Memgraph's Docker
Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/memgraph), by searching the
`memgraph/memgraph-mage` repository with the `cugraph` keyword.

You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) by running the following command in a new
terminal:

```terminal
docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
```

You can also connect to Memgraph instance using the [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization/user-manual), available for download from [Memgraph's
Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download). 

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

</Steps>

### Run Memgraph Docker image

Install and run the `memgraph` image using the following command:

```console
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph
```

You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) by running the following command in a new
terminal:

```terminal
docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
```

You can also connect to Memgraph instance using the [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization/user-manual), available for download from [Memgraph's
Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download). 

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

#### Load and run Memgraph Docker image from Memgraph download hub

If you've downloaded the Memgraph Docker image directly from the [Memgraph
download hub](https://memgraph.com/download), you'll receive a file named
similar to `memgraph-2.20.0-docker.tar.gz` (the exact file name varies based on
the version you've downloaded).

To load this image into Docker, do the following:

<Steps>


{<h3>Load the image into Docker</h3>}

Use the `docker load` command to load the
image into Docker:

```terminal
docker load -i memgraph-2.20.0-docker.tar.gz
```

{<h3>Run the Memgraph image</h3>}

After loading the image, you can run it using the `docker run` command. Here’s
an example command to start the Memgraph Docker container:

```terminal
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph:2.18.0
```

<Callout>
The `:2.18.0` part in the `docker run` command refers to the tag of the Docker
image. It is important to specify the correct tag corresponding to the version
of Memgraph you have downloaded and loaded.

To find the available tags for your images, you can use the `docker images`
command. This command lists all Docker images on your system, including their
tags.

Docker allows multiple versions of the same image to coexist, each tagged with a
different version number. If no tag is specified, Docker will default to using
the `:latest` tag.
</Callout>

</Steps>

### Run Memgraph Lab image

Install and run the `lab` image using the following command:

```console
docker run -d -p 3000:3000  --name lab memgraph/lab
```

Once the container is up you can access Memgraph Lab on
[localhost:3000](https://localhost:3000).

#### Issues when connecting to Memgraph Lab to Memgraph

Issues when linking Memgraph Lab with Memgraph can come from the chosen
deployment method and the operating system deployed. The handling of the
`QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` environment variable differs based on the operating
system:

- **Mac or Windows**: The `host.docker.internal` hostname allows Docker
  containers to connect to the host machine. Set this as the value for
  `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` when running Lab on Mac or Windows to enable
  connection to Memgraph running on the host:

  ```console
  docker run -d -p 3000:3000 -e QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST=host.docker.internal --name lab memgraph/lab
  ```

- **Linux**: There's no need to set `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` as it defaults to
  `localhost`, assuming Memgraph is running locally on the host machine.

You can also use the `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT` environment variable to specify the
quick connect port number, e.g. `- e QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT=7688`.


## Configuration options

To learn about all the configuration options, check out the [configuration
settings](/database-management/configuration).

When using Docker, you can specify the configuration options in the `docker run`
command:

```console
docker run memgraph/memgraph --bolt-port=7687 --log-level=TRACE
```

---

## Install Memgraph Platform image up to version 2.14

<Callout type="info">

These instructions are listed here as a reference for legacy installations.

Starting with version 2.15, Memgraph Platform transitions to a multi-container
application. This upgrade moves from a single Docker image to separate
containers for Memgraph+MAGE and Memgraph Lab, utilizing Docker Compose for
deployment and management.

For detailed setup instructions and best practices, please refer to the [Docker
Compose documentation for Memgraph
Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose#docker-compose-for-memgraph-platform).

Please note that the [Memgraph Platform Docker
image](https://hub.docker.com/r/memgraph/memgraph-platform) is no longer being
updated.

</Callout>


<Steps>

{<h3>Install Docker Desktop</h3>}

Install [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) by following the instructions available on their site. 

{<h3>Install and run Memgraph</h3>}

Open a terminal and use the following command:

<CodeSnippet code="docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-platform" page="install-memgraph/docker" os="docker"/>

After downloading the image, Memgraph will install and if the installation was
successful, you should see a message similar to the following:

```nocopy
C:\Users\Vlasta>docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-platform
2023-08-29 09:02:59,833 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisor/programs/lab.conf" during parsing
2023-08-29 09:02:59,834 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisor/programs/memgraph.conf" during parsing
2023-08-29 09:02:59,834 INFO Set uid to user 0 succeeded
2023-08-29 09:02:59,842 INFO supervisord started with pid 1
2023-08-29 09:03:00,845 INFO spawned: 'memgraph' with pid 7
2023-08-29 09:03:00,848 INFO spawned: 'lab' with pid 8
You are running Memgraph v2.10.1
To get started with Memgraph, visit https://memgr.ph/start
[2023-08-29 09:03:01.034] [memgraph_log] [warning] Invalid license key string. To use Enterprise features please set it to a valid string using the following query:
SET DATABASE SETTING "enterprise.license" TO "your-license-key"
[2023-08-29 09:03:01.333] [memgraph_log] [warning] No snapshot or WAL file found. For more details, visit https://memgr.ph/durability.
[2023-08-29 09:03:01.333] [memgraph_log] [warning] Replication configuration will NOT be stored. When the server restarts, replication state will be forgotten.
2023-08-29 09:03:02,334 INFO success: memgraph entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
2023-08-29 09:03:02,335 INFO success: lab entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
[2023-08-29 09:03:02.803] INFO: [lab] Lab is running at http://localhost:3000 in platform mode
DGL backend not selected or invalid.  Assuming PyTorch for now.
<frozen importlib._bootstrap>:228: RuntimeWarning: scipy._lib.messagestream.MessageStream size changed, may indicate binary incompatibility. Expected 56 from C header, got 64 from PyObject
[2023-08-29 09:03:09.257] [memgraph_log] [error] Unable to load module "/usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules/libmgclient.so"; /usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules/libmgclient.so: undefined symbol: mgp_init_module. For more details, visit https://memgr.ph/modules.
[2023-08-29 09:03:09.542] [memgraph_log] [error] Unable to load module "/usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules/example_cpp.so"; /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libstdc++.so.6: version `GLIBCXX_3.4.29' not found (required by /usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules/example_cpp.so). For more details, visit https://memgr.ph/modules.
[2023-08-29 09:03:09.542] [memgraph_log] [warning] Using non-secure Bolt connection (without SSL). For more details, visit https://memgr.ph/ssl.
```

Memgraph will start listing the logs, and don't worry about the inital errors
and warnings as at this point, they are of informative nature. 

{<h3>Connect to the instance</h3>}

You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) by running the following command in a new
terminal:

```terminal
docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
```

When the mgconsole starts, you can query the database: 

```nocopy
C:\Users\Vlasta>docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
mgconsole 1.3
Connected to 'memgraph://127.0.0.1:7687'
Type :help for shell usage
Quit the shell by typing Ctrl-D(eof) or :quit
memgraph>
```

You can also connect to Memgraph using the [Memgraph Lab web
application](/data-visualization/user-manual) available within the
`memgraph-platform` Docker image by visiting `localhost:3000`.

![](/pages/getting-started/lab.png)

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

</Steps>

### Running individual tools from Memgraph Platform image

You can run only the **Memgraph database instance** from the Memgraph Platform image
using the following command: 

```terminal
docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph-platform -c /etc/supervisor/supervisord-memgraph-only.conf
```

You can run only **mgconsole** web application from the Memgraph Platform
image using the following command in Linux:

```terminal
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

You can run only **mgconsole** web application from the Memgraph Platform
image using the following command in Windows and macOS:

```terminal
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph-platform --host host.docker.internal
```

You can run only the **Memgraph Lab** web application from the Memgraph Platform
image using the following command: 

```terminal
docker run -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform -c /etc/supervisor/supervisord-lab-only.conf
```

### Stop and start the instance

You can stop the instance with `docker stop memgraph`.

You can restart the instance with `docker start memgraph`


## Troubleshooting

### Issues with loading Memgraph
```console
docker load -i memgraph.tar.gz
```
{<h4>Error during connect:<br/> <code>This error may indicate that the docker daemon is not running.</code></h4>}

Run the Docker Desktop application and wait for it to load fully.

{<h4>Error response from daemon:<br/> <code>open \\.\pipe\docker_engine_linux: The system cannot find the file specified.</code></h4>}

Reload the Docker Desktop application and wait for it to load fully.

{<h4>Unsupported OS Linux</h4>}

You need to download the [Windows Subsystem for
Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/wsl/install-win10#step-4---download-the-linux-kernel-update-package),
and enable experimental features in Docker Desktop, under *Settings* -> *Docker
Engine*, change *experimental* to *true*.

### Issues when connecting to Memgraph Platform up to version 2.14

```console
docker run memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

While this command will start a Memgraph instance, not publishing the port will
cause problems when trying to connect to the database via **Memgraph Lab** or
**mgconsole**. To avoid this, you should publish the
container's port to the host using the `-p` flag and by specifying the port:

```console
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

### Issues with connecting `mgconsole` to the database

```console
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph-platform --host HOST
```

Although unlikely, sometimes there are issues with connecting **mgconsole** to
the Docker Container’s IP address because it is running on a custom IP rather
than `localhost`. This problem is most often accompanied with the following
error:

```console
Connection failure: Couldn't connect to 127.0.0.1:7687!
```

To fix this issue, just replace `HOST` from the first command with
`host.docker.internal`. To find out more about networking in Docker, take a look
at [Networking features in Docker Desktop for
Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/networking/) guide or
[Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/networking/) guide .

### Issues with the IP address

Although unlikely, some users might experience minor difficulties after the
Docker installation. Instead of running on `localhost`, a Docker container for
Memgraph may be running on a custom IP address. Fortunately, that IP address can
be found as follows:

**1.** Determine the ID of the Memgraph Container by issuing the
command `docker ps`. The user should get an output similar to the following:

```console
CONTAINER ID    IMAGE       COMMAND                  CREATED
9397623cd87e    memgraph    "/usr/lib/memgraph/m…"   2 seconds ago
```

At this point, it is important to remember the container ID of the Memgraph
Image. In our case, that is `9397623cd87e`.

**2.** Use the this ID to retrieve the IP address of the Container:

```console
docker inspect -f '{{range.NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{.IPAddress}}{{end}}' 9397623cd87e
```

The command above will yield the IP address that should be used when connecting
to Memgraph via **Memgraph Lab** or **mgconsole**. Just replace
`HOST` from the following command with the appropriate IP address:

```console
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph-platform --host HOST
```

Commit message:

Add mgconsole with docker examples  (#994)
* Introduce mgconsole container.

* Fixes.

* Update flow.

* Updated based on review.

* Updates based on review.

* Typo.

---------

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker.mdx, after:

---
title: Install Memgraph with Docker
description: Comprehend and master the use of Memgraph with Docker through our thorough documentation. A one-stop solution for graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'

# Install Memgraph with Docker

[Docker](https://www.docker.com) is a service that uses OS-level virtualization
to deliver software in packages that are called
[containers](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container).

Memgraph uses Docker because it is:

- Flexible
- Lightweight
- Portable - you can build locally or deploy to the cloud
- Runs on all platforms - Windows, Linux and macOS
- Deploys in Kubernetes

Memgraph bundles the database along with various analytical tools into distinct
Docker images. 

## Available Docker images

All Memgraph Docker images are available at [Memgraph's Docker
Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/memgraph). There you will find the exact Docker
image tags you can use to install Memgraph with. 

The main repositories that contain `memgraph` are: 

- `memgraph/memgraph-mage` - includes Memgraph database, command-line interface
  [`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli) and [`MAGE`](/advanced-algorithms) graph
  algorithms library. If tagged with cuGraph, it also includes [NVIDIA cuGraph
      GPU-powered](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/cugraph) graph
      algorithms.
- `memgraph/memgraph` - includes Memgraph database and command-line interface
  [`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli).

There are also two additional standalone images that do not include the Memgraph:

- `memgraph/lab` - includes a web interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization) that helps you explore the data stored in Memgraph.
- `memgraph/mgconsole` - includes a command-line interface
  [`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli) that allows you to interact with Memgraph
  from the command line.

To use Memgraph, run
[`memgraph/memgraph-mage`](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#run-memgraph-mage-docker-image),
[`memgraph/memgraph-mage` +
cuGraph](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#run-memgraph-mage-docker-image--cugraph)
or
[`memgraph/memgraph`](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#run-memgraph-docker-image)
image. To query Memgraph, use the CLI mgconsole. If you prefer a visual user
interface to query Memgraph, run
[`memgraph/lab`](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#run-memgraph-lab-image)
image or [download Desktop
application](https://memgraph.com/download#individual) from Memgraph Download
hub and connect to the running Memgraph instance.

Memgraph and Memgraph Lab can be run as a multi-container application - **Memgraph
Platform**. To do that, run the above images as services with [Docker
Compose](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose).

### Run Memgraph MAGE Docker image

Install and run the `memgraph-mage` image using the following command:

```console
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-mage
```

You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) by running the following command in a new
terminal:

```terminal
docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
```

You can also connect to Memgraph instance using the [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization/user-manual), available for download from [Memgraph's
Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download), or using the [Memgraph Lab Docker image](#run-memgraph-lab-image). 

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

### Run Memgraph MAGE Docker image + cuGraph

<Steps>

{<h3>Check prerequisites</h3>}

To be able to run cuGraph analytics, make sure you have compatible
infrastructure first. The exact system requirements are available at the [NVIDIA
RAPIDS site](https://docs.rapids.ai/install#requirements), and include an NVIDIA
Pascal (or better) GPU and up-to-date CUDA & NVIDIA drivers.

You will also need to install:

- Official [NVIDIA driver](https://www.nvidia.com/download/index.aspx) for your operating system.
- To run on NVIDIA-powered GPUs, RAPIDS requires Docker CE v19.03+ and [nvidia-container-toolkit](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/install-guide.html).
- Legacy Docker CE v17-18 users requie the [nvidia-docker2 package](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker/wiki/Installation-(version-2.0)).

{<h3>Install and run Memgraph</h3>}

Install and run Memgraph using the following command:

```console
docker run --rm --gpus all -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 memgraph/memgraph-mage:1.3-cugraph-22.02-cuda-11.5
```

Check the latest versions of cuGraph Docker images at [Memgraph's Docker
Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/memgraph), by searching the
`memgraph/memgraph-mage` repository with the `cugraph` keyword.

You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) by running the following command in a new
terminal:

```terminal
docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
```

You can also connect to Memgraph instance using the [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization/user-manual), available for download from [Memgraph's
Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download). 

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

</Steps>

### Run Memgraph Docker image

Install and run the `memgraph` image using the following command:

```console
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph
```

You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) by running the following command in a new
terminal:

```terminal
docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
```

You can also connect to Memgraph instance using the [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization/user-manual), available for download from [Memgraph's
Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download). 

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

#### Load and run Memgraph Docker image from Memgraph download hub

If you've downloaded the Memgraph Docker image directly from the [Memgraph
download hub](https://memgraph.com/download), you'll receive a file named
similar to `memgraph-2.20.0-docker.tar.gz` (the exact file name varies based on
the version you've downloaded).

To load this image into Docker, do the following:

<Steps>


{<h3>Load the image into Docker</h3>}

Use the `docker load` command to load the
image into Docker:

```terminal
docker load -i memgraph-2.20.0-docker.tar.gz
```

{<h3>Run the Memgraph image</h3>}

After loading the image, you can run it using the `docker run` command. Here’s
an example command to start the Memgraph Docker container:

```terminal
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph:2.18.0
```

<Callout>
The `:2.18.0` part in the `docker run` command refers to the tag of the Docker
image. It is important to specify the correct tag corresponding to the version
of Memgraph you have downloaded and loaded.

To find the available tags for your images, you can use the `docker images`
command. This command lists all Docker images on your system, including their
tags.

Docker allows multiple versions of the same image to coexist, each tagged with a
different version number. If no tag is specified, Docker will default to using
the `:latest` tag.
</Callout>

</Steps>

### Run Memgraph Lab image

Install and run the `lab` image using the following command:

```console
docker run -d -p 3000:3000  --name lab memgraph/lab
```

Once the container is up you can access Memgraph Lab on
[localhost:3000](https://localhost:3000).

#### Issues when connecting to Memgraph Lab to Memgraph

Issues when linking Memgraph Lab with Memgraph can come from the chosen
deployment method and the operating system deployed. The handling of the
`QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` environment variable differs based on the operating
system:

- **Mac or Windows**: The `host.docker.internal` hostname allows Docker
  containers to connect to the host machine. Set this as the value for
  `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` when running Lab on Mac or Windows to enable
  connection to Memgraph running on the host:

  ```console
  docker run -d -p 3000:3000 -e QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST=host.docker.internal --name lab memgraph/lab
  ```

- **Linux**: There's no need to set `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` as it defaults to
  `localhost`, assuming Memgraph is running locally on the host machine.

You can also use the `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT` environment variable to specify the
quick connect port number, e.g. `- e QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT=7688`.


## Configuration options

To learn about all the configuration options, check out the [configuration
settings](/database-management/configuration).

When using Docker, you can specify the configuration options in the `docker run`
command:

```console
docker run memgraph/memgraph --bolt-port=7687 --log-level=TRACE
```

---

## Install Memgraph Platform image up to version 2.14

<Callout type="info">

These instructions are listed here as a reference for legacy installations.

Starting with version 2.15, Memgraph Platform transitions to a multi-container
application. This upgrade moves from a single Docker image to separate
containers for Memgraph+MAGE and Memgraph Lab, utilizing Docker Compose for
deployment and management.

For detailed setup instructions and best practices, please refer to the [Docker
Compose documentation for Memgraph
Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose#docker-compose-for-memgraph-platform).

Please note that the [Memgraph Platform Docker
image](https://hub.docker.com/r/memgraph/memgraph-platform) is no longer being
updated.

</Callout>


<Steps>

{<h3>Install Docker Desktop</h3>}

Install [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) by following the instructions available on their site. 

{<h3>Install and run Memgraph</h3>}

Open a terminal and use the following command:

<CodeSnippet code="docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-platform" page="install-memgraph/docker" os="docker"/>

After downloading the image, Memgraph will install and if the installation was
successful, you should see a message similar to the following:

```nocopy
C:\Users\Vlasta>docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-platform
2023-08-29 09:02:59,833 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisor/programs/lab.conf" during parsing
2023-08-29 09:02:59,834 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisor/programs/memgraph.conf" during parsing
2023-08-29 09:02:59,834 INFO Set uid to user 0 succeeded
2023-08-29 09:02:59,842 INFO supervisord started with pid 1
2023-08-29 09:03:00,845 INFO spawned: 'memgraph' with pid 7
2023-08-29 09:03:00,848 INFO spawned: 'lab' with pid 8
You are running Memgraph v2.10.1
To get started with Memgraph, visit https://memgr.ph/start
[2023-08-29 09:03:01.034] [memgraph_log] [warning] Invalid license key string. To use Enterprise features please set it to a valid string using the following query:
SET DATABASE SETTING "enterprise.license" TO "your-license-key"
[2023-08-29 09:03:01.333] [memgraph_log] [warning] No snapshot or WAL file found. For more details, visit https://memgr.ph/durability.
[2023-08-29 09:03:01.333] [memgraph_log] [warning] Replication configuration will NOT be stored. When the server restarts, replication state will be forgotten.
2023-08-29 09:03:02,334 INFO success: memgraph entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
2023-08-29 09:03:02,335 INFO success: lab entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
[2023-08-29 09:03:02.803] INFO: [lab] Lab is running at http://localhost:3000 in platform mode
DGL backend not selected or invalid.  Assuming PyTorch for now.
<frozen importlib._bootstrap>:228: RuntimeWarning: scipy._lib.messagestream.MessageStream size changed, may indicate binary incompatibility. Expected 56 from C header, got 64 from PyObject
[2023-08-29 09:03:09.257] [memgraph_log] [error] Unable to load module "/usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules/libmgclient.so"; /usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules/libmgclient.so: undefined symbol: mgp_init_module. For more details, visit https://memgr.ph/modules.
[2023-08-29 09:03:09.542] [memgraph_log] [error] Unable to load module "/usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules/example_cpp.so"; /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libstdc++.so.6: version `GLIBCXX_3.4.29' not found (required by /usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules/example_cpp.so). For more details, visit https://memgr.ph/modules.
[2023-08-29 09:03:09.542] [memgraph_log] [warning] Using non-secure Bolt connection (without SSL). For more details, visit https://memgr.ph/ssl.
```

Memgraph will start listing the logs, and don't worry about the inital errors
and warnings as at this point, they are of informative nature. 

{<h3>Connect to the instance</h3>}

You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) by running the following command in a new
terminal:

```terminal
docker run -it  memgraph/mgconsole:latest
```

When the mgconsole starts, you can query the database: 

```nocopy
docker run -it  memgraph/mgconsole:latest
mgconsole 1.4
Connected to 'memgraph://127.0.0.1:7687'
Type :help for shell usage
Quit the shell by typing Ctrl-D(eof) or :quit
memgraph>
```

You can also connect to Memgraph using the [Memgraph Lab web
application](/data-visualization/user-manual) available within the
`memgraph-platform` Docker image by visiting `localhost:3000`.

![](/pages/getting-started/lab.png)

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

</Steps>

### Running individual tools from Memgraph Platform image

You can run only the **Memgraph database instance** from the Memgraph Platform image
using the following command: 

```terminal
docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph-platform -c /etc/supervisor/supervisord-memgraph-only.conf
```

You can run only **mgconsole** from the Memgraph Platform
image using the following command in Linux:

```terminal
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

You can run only **mgconsole** application from the Memgraph Platform
image using the following command in Windows and macOS:

```terminal
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph-platform --host host.docker.internal
```

You can also consider using a standalone `mgconsole` image as described in the [CLI section](/getting-started/cli).

You can run only the **Memgraph Lab** web application from the Memgraph Platform
image using the following command: 

```terminal
docker run -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform -c /etc/supervisor/supervisord-lab-only.conf
```

### Stop and start the instance

You can stop the instance with `docker stop memgraph`.

You can restart the instance with `docker start memgraph`


## Troubleshooting

### Issues with loading Memgraph
```console
docker load -i memgraph.tar.gz
```
{<h4>Error during connect:<br/> <code>This error may indicate that the docker daemon is not running.</code></h4>}

Run the Docker Desktop application and wait for it to load fully.

{<h4>Error response from daemon:<br/> <code>open \\.\pipe\docker_engine_linux: The system cannot find the file specified.</code></h4>}

Reload the Docker Desktop application and wait for it to load fully.

{<h4>Unsupported OS Linux</h4>}

You need to download the [Windows Subsystem for
Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/wsl/install-win10#step-4---download-the-linux-kernel-update-package),
and enable experimental features in Docker Desktop, under *Settings* -> *Docker
Engine*, change *experimental* to *true*.

### Issues when connecting to Memgraph Platform up to version 2.14

```console
docker run memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

While this command will start a Memgraph instance, not publishing the port will
cause problems when trying to connect to the database via **Memgraph Lab** or
**mgconsole**. To avoid this, you should publish the
container's port to the host using the `-p` flag and by specifying the port:

```console
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

### Issues with connecting `mgconsole` to the database

```console
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph-platform --host HOST
```

Although unlikely, sometimes there are issues with connecting **mgconsole** to
the Docker Container’s IP address because it is running on a custom IP rather
than `localhost`. This problem is most often accompanied with the following
error:

```console
Connection failure: Couldn't connect to 127.0.0.1:7687!
```

To fix this issue, just replace `HOST` from the first command with
`host.docker.internal`. To find out more about networking in Docker, take a look
at [Networking features in Docker Desktop for
Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/networking/) guide or
[Mac](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/networking/) guide .

### Issues with the IP address

Although unlikely, some users might experience minor difficulties after the
Docker installation. Instead of running on `localhost`, a Docker container for
Memgraph may be running on a custom IP address. Fortunately, that IP address can
be found as follows:

**1.** Determine the ID of the Memgraph Container by issuing the
command `docker ps`. The user should get an output similar to the following:

```console
CONTAINER ID    IMAGE       COMMAND                  CREATED
9397623cd87e    memgraph    "/usr/lib/memgraph/m…"   2 seconds ago
```

At this point, it is important to remember the container ID of the Memgraph
Image. In our case, that is `9397623cd87e`.

**2.** Use the this ID to retrieve the IP address of the Container:

```console
docker inspect -f '{{range.NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{.IPAddress}}{{end}}' 9397623cd87e
```

The command above will yield the IP address that should be used when connecting
to Memgraph via **Memgraph Lab** or **mgconsole**. Just replace
`HOST` from the following command with the appropriate IP address:

```console
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph-platform --host HOST
```
