pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose.mdx, before:

---
title: Docker Compose
description: Experience Memgraph's integration with Docker Compose. Our dedicated documentation walks you through maximizing your graph computing capabilities.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Docker Compose

If you define an application with **Docker Compose**, you can use that
definition to run the application in CI, staging, or production environments.
Here you can find `docker-compose.yml` files necessary to run
[`memgraph-platform`](#docker-compose-for-memgraph-platform),
[`memgraph-mage`](#docker-compose-for-memgraph-mage-image), and
[`memgraph`](#docker-compose-for-memgraph-image). You can also find
Docker Compose configurations for [Memgraph Platform versions up to
2.14](#docker-compose-for-memgraph-platform-image-up-to-version-214).

## Docker Compose for Memgraph Platform

The Docker Compose configuration for the Memgraph Platform is designed to
facilitate a smooth and efficient setup process for developers by specifying the
use of `memgraph/memgraph-mage` and `memgraph/lab` images. This setup ensures
that all necessary services are properly configured to work together seamlessly,
emphasizing ease of use and integration.

```yaml
version: "3"

services:
  memgraph:
    image: memgraph/memgraph-mage:latest
    container_name: memgraph-mage
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
      - "7444:7444"
    command: ["--log-level=TRACE"]

  lab:
    image: memgraph/lab:latest
    container_name: memgraph-lab
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    depends_on:
      - memgraph
    environment:
      - QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST=memgraph
      - QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT=7687
```

### Key Features

- **Memgraph MAGE**: The core of the platform, the Memgraph database with
  included MAGE algorithms, is set up with ports `7687` for the Bolt protocol
  and `7444` for the optional HTTPS interface. The log level is set to `TRACE`
  to provide detailed output, which is invaluable for debugging and further
  development.

- **Memgraph Lab**: A user-friendly visual interface that connects automatically
  to the Memgraph service using predefined environment variables. It is
  accessible through port `3000`, offering an intuitive environment for query
  execution and data visualization.

- **Service Dependency**: Configuration ensures that Memgraph Lab starts only
  after the Memgraph database service is fully operational, establishing a
  reliable service order and minimizing startup issues.

### Notes

- This configuration is primarily optimized for development and testing
  environments. For production deployments, it's recommended to customize the
  configuration according to specific security and performance requirements.
  
- The `--log-level=TRACE` option in the Memgraph service enables detailed
  logging. This setting is adjustable to suit different phases of development
  and testing, providing flexibility in monitoring and troubleshooting.


## Docker Compose for Memgraph MAGE image

The **Memgraph MAGE** image contains:

- **Memgraph** - the database that holds your data
- **MAGE** - graph algorithms and modules library

```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  memgraph-mage:
    image: "memgraph/memgraph-mage"
    volumes:
      - mg_lib:/var/lib/memgraph
      - mg_log:/var/log/memgraph
      - mg_etc:/etc/memgraph
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
      - "7444:7444"
    command: ["--log-level=TRACE"]
volumes:
  mg_lib:
  mg_log:
  mg_etc:
```

The port `7687` is used for communication with Memgraph via Bolt protocol, while
the port `7444` is there so that you can see logs from Memgraph inside the
Memgraph Lab application. We specified three useful volumes:

- `mg_lib` - directory containing data that enables data persistency
- `mg_log` - directory containing log files
- `mg_etc` - directory containing the configuration file

The exact location of the local directories depends on your specific setup.

We recommend using the `command` option to customize [Memgraph's runtime
flags](/configuration/configuration-settings) instead of setting them through
`entrypoint`. This approach enhances your flexibility and aligns with Docker
best practices, allowing you to easily adjust your container's behavior without
altering its foundational settings.

In the above example,
you can see how to set `--log-level` to `TRACE`. Since the MAGE library is
included in this image, you can use the available graph algorithms.

## Docker Compose for Memgraph image

The **Memgraph** image contains the database that holds your data.

```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  memgraph:
    image: "memgraph/memgraph"
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
      - "7444:7444"
    volumes:
      - mg_lib:/var/lib/memgraph
      - mg_log:/var/log/memgraph
      - mg_etc:/etc/memgraph
    command: ["--log-level=TRACE"]
volumes:
  mg_lib:
  mg_log:
  mg_etc:
```

The port `7687` is used for communication with Memgraph via Bolt protocol, while
the port `7444` is there so that you can see logs from Memgraph inside the
Memgraph Lab application. We specified three useful volumes:

- `mg_lib` - directory containing data that enables data persistency
- `mg_log` - directory containing log files
- `mg_etc` - directory containing the configuration file

The exact location of the local directories depends on your specific setup.

We recommend using the `command` option to customize [Memgraph's runtime
flags](/configuration/configuration-settings) instead of setting them through
`entrypoint`. This approach enhances your flexibility and aligns with Docker
best practices, allowing you to easily adjust your container's behavior without
altering its foundational settings.

In the above example, you can see how to set `--log-level` to `TRACE`. Since this image doesn't have
the MAGE library included, you won't be able to use graph algorithms.

> Want to see applications built with Memgraph and Docker Compose? Check out
> [Memgraph's Github](https://github.com/memgraph) repositories.

## Issues when running Memgraph and Lab within the same Docker compose

When running both Memgraph and Lab services within the same Docker Compose file,
the `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` environment variable should be set to the name of
the Memgraph database service as defined in your Docker Compose file. This
allows the Lab service to correctly resolve and connect to the Memgraph service.
Here's an example snippet for your `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  memgraph:
    image: memgraph/memgraph
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
  lab:
    image: memgraph/lab
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST: memgraph
```

In this configuration, `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` is set to `memgraph`, which is
the service name of the Memgraph database within the Docker Compose network,
enabling the direct communication between the Lab and Memgraph services. You can
also use the `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT` environment variable to specify the quick
connect port number, e.g. `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT: 7688`

---

## Docker Compose for Memgraph Platform image up to version 2.14

<Callout type="info">

These instructions are listed here as a reference for legacy installations.

Starting with version 2.15, Memgraph Platform transitions to a multi-container
application. This upgrade moves from a single Docker image to separate
containers for Memgraph+MAGE and Memgraph Lab, utilizing Docker Compose for
deployment and management.

Please note that the [Memgraph Platform Docker
image](https://hub.docker.com/r/memgraph/memgraph-platform) is no longer being
updated.

</Callout>

The `memgraph-platform` Docker image contains:

- **Memgraph database** - the database that holds your data
- **[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization)** - visual user interface for running
  queries and visualizing graph data
- **[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli)** - command-line interface for running
  queries
- **[MAGE](/advanced-algorithms)** - graph algorithms and modules library

```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  memgraph-platform:
    image: "memgraph/memgraph-platform"
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
      - "3000:3000"
      - "7444:7444"
    volumes:
      - mg_lib:/var/lib/memgraph
      - mg_log:/var/log/memgraph
      - mg_etc:/etc/memgraph
    env_file:
      - /path_to/.env  # Replace this with the actual path to your .env file
    entrypoint: ["/usr/bin/supervisord"]
volumes:
  mg_lib:
  mg_log:
  mg_etc:
```

and your `.env` file contains configuration flags you want to set:

```
MEMGRAPH="--log-level=TRACE"
```

The port `7687` is used for communication with Memgraph via Bolt protocol. The
port `3000` is exposed because Memgraph Lab will be running as a web application
on  `localhost:3000`, while the port `7444` is there so that you can see logs
from Memgraph inside Memgraph Lab. We specified three useful volumes:

- `mg_lib` - directory containing data that enables data persistency
- `mg_log` - directory containing log files
- `mg_etc` - directory containing the configuration file

The exact location of the local directories depends on your specific setup.

[Configuration settings](/configuration/configuration-settings) can be changed
by setting the value of the `MEMGRAPH` environment variable. In the above
example, you can see how to set `--log-level` to `TRACE`. Since Memgraph
Platform is not a single service, the process manager
[`supervisord`](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/multi-service_container/)
is used as the main running process in the `entrypoint`. The MAGE library is
included in this image, so you can use the available graph algorithms.

Commit message:

Update config settings for Docker Compose (#709)
* Update config settings for Docker Compose

* update content

* Update pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose.mdx

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose.mdx, after:

---
title: Docker Compose
description: Experience Memgraph's integration with Docker Compose. Our dedicated documentation walks you through maximizing your graph computing capabilities.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'

# Docker Compose

If you define an application with **Docker Compose**, you can use that
definition to run the application in CI, staging, or production environments.
Here you can find `docker-compose.yml` files necessary to run
[`memgraph-platform`](#docker-compose-for-memgraph-platform),
[`memgraph-mage`](#docker-compose-for-memgraph-mage-image), and
[`memgraph`](#docker-compose-for-memgraph-image). You can also find
Docker Compose configurations for [Memgraph Platform versions up to
2.14](#docker-compose-for-memgraph-platform-image-up-to-version-214).

## Docker Compose for Memgraph Platform

The Docker Compose configuration for the Memgraph Platform is designed to
facilitate a smooth and efficient setup process for developers by specifying the
use of `memgraph/memgraph-mage` and `memgraph/lab` images. This setup ensures
that all necessary services are properly configured to work together seamlessly,
emphasizing ease of use and integration.

```yaml
version: "3"

services:
  memgraph:
    image: memgraph/memgraph-mage:latest
    container_name: memgraph-mage
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
      - "7444:7444"
    command: ["--log-level=TRACE"]

  lab:
    image: memgraph/lab:latest
    container_name: memgraph-lab
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    depends_on:
      - memgraph
    environment:
      - QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST=memgraph
      - QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT=7687
```

{<h3>Key features</h3>}

- **Memgraph MAGE**: The core of the platform, the Memgraph database with
  included MAGE algorithms, is set up with ports `7687` for the Bolt protocol
  and `7444` for the optional HTTPS interface. The log level is set to `TRACE`
  to provide detailed output, which is invaluable for debugging and further
  development.

- **Memgraph Lab**: A user-friendly visual interface that connects automatically
  to the Memgraph service using predefined environment variables. It is
  accessible through port `3000`, offering an intuitive environment for query
  execution and data visualization.

- **Service Dependency**: Configuration ensures that Memgraph Lab starts only
  after the Memgraph database service is fully operational, establishing a
  reliable service order and minimizing startup issues.

{<h3>Configuration</h3>}

- This configuration is primarily optimized for development and testing
  environments. For production deployments, it's recommended to customize the
  configuration according to specific security and performance requirements.
  
- In this Docker Compose file, the `command` directive is used to specify the
  configuration flags that should be set when the container starts. In this
  example, the specified command `--log-level=TRACE` sets the log level to
  TRACE. The `--log-level=TRACE` option in the Memgraph service enables detailed
  logging. This setting is adjustable to suit different phases of development
  and testing, providing flexibility in monitoring and troubleshooting. 

<Callout>
  
If you wish to set more than one configuration flag, use the following syntax: <br/>
`command: ["--setting-name1=value1", "--setting-name2=value2"]`

</Callout>

<Cards>
<div className="w-[250px]">
  <Card
    title="Read more about configuration settings"
    href="/configuration/configuration-settings"
  />
</div>
</Cards>


## Docker Compose for Memgraph MAGE image

The **Memgraph MAGE** image contains:

- **Memgraph** - the database that holds your data
- **MAGE** - graph algorithms and modules library

```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  memgraph-mage:
    image: "memgraph/memgraph-mage"
    volumes:
      - mg_lib:/var/lib/memgraph
      - mg_log:/var/log/memgraph
      - mg_etc:/etc/memgraph
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
      - "7444:7444"
    command: ["--log-level=TRACE"]
volumes:
  mg_lib:
  mg_log:
  mg_etc:
```

The port `7687` is used for communication with Memgraph via Bolt protocol, while
the port `7444` is there so that you can see logs from Memgraph inside the
Memgraph Lab application. We specified three useful volumes:

- `mg_lib` - directory containing data that enables data persistency
- `mg_log` - directory containing log files
- `mg_etc` - directory containing the configuration file

The exact location of the local directories depends on your specific setup.

We recommend using the `command` option to customize [Memgraph's runtime
flags](/configuration/configuration-settings) instead of setting them through
`entrypoint`. This approach enhances your flexibility and aligns with Docker
best practices, allowing you to easily adjust your container's behavior without
altering its foundational settings.

In the above example,
you can see how to set `--log-level` to `TRACE`. Since the MAGE library is
included in this image, you can use the available graph algorithms.

## Docker Compose for Memgraph image

The **Memgraph** image contains the database that holds your data.

```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  memgraph:
    image: "memgraph/memgraph"
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
      - "7444:7444"
    volumes:
      - mg_lib:/var/lib/memgraph
      - mg_log:/var/log/memgraph
      - mg_etc:/etc/memgraph
    command: ["--log-level=TRACE"]
volumes:
  mg_lib:
  mg_log:
  mg_etc:
```

The port `7687` is used for communication with Memgraph via Bolt protocol, while
the port `7444` is there so that you can see logs from Memgraph inside the
Memgraph Lab application. We specified three useful volumes:

- `mg_lib` - directory containing data that enables data persistency
- `mg_log` - directory containing log files
- `mg_etc` - directory containing the configuration file

The exact location of the local directories depends on your specific setup.

We recommend using the `command` option to customize [Memgraph's runtime
flags](/configuration/configuration-settings) instead of setting them through
`entrypoint`. This approach enhances your flexibility and aligns with Docker
best practices, allowing you to easily adjust your container's behavior without
altering its foundational settings.

In the above example, you can see how to set `--log-level` to `TRACE`. Since this image doesn't have
the MAGE library included, you won't be able to use graph algorithms.

> Want to see applications built with Memgraph and Docker Compose? Check out
> [Memgraph's Github](https://github.com/memgraph) repositories.

## Issues when running Memgraph and Lab within the same Docker compose

When running both Memgraph and Lab services within the same Docker Compose file,
the `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` environment variable should be set to the name of
the Memgraph database service as defined in your Docker Compose file. This
allows the Lab service to correctly resolve and connect to the Memgraph service.
Here's an example snippet for your `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  memgraph:
    image: memgraph/memgraph
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
  lab:
    image: memgraph/lab
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST: memgraph
```

In this configuration, `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_HOST` is set to `memgraph`, which is
the service name of the Memgraph database within the Docker Compose network,
enabling the direct communication between the Lab and Memgraph services. You can
also use the `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT` environment variable to specify the quick
connect port number, e.g. `QUICK_CONNECT_MG_PORT: 7688`

---

## Docker Compose for Memgraph Platform image up to version 2.14

<Callout type="info">

These instructions are listed here as a reference for legacy installations.

Starting with version 2.15, Memgraph Platform transitions to a multi-container
application. This upgrade moves from a single Docker image to separate
containers for Memgraph+MAGE and Memgraph Lab, utilizing Docker Compose for
deployment and management.

Please note that the [Memgraph Platform Docker
image](https://hub.docker.com/r/memgraph/memgraph-platform) is no longer being
updated.

</Callout>

The `memgraph-platform` Docker image contains:

- **Memgraph database** - the database that holds your data
- **[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization)** - visual user interface for running
  queries and visualizing graph data
- **[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli)** - command-line interface for running
  queries
- **[MAGE](/advanced-algorithms)** - graph algorithms and modules library

```yaml
version: "3"
services:
  memgraph-platform:
    image: "memgraph/memgraph-platform"
    ports:
      - "7687:7687"
      - "3000:3000"
      - "7444:7444"
    volumes:
      - mg_lib:/var/lib/memgraph
      - mg_log:/var/log/memgraph
      - mg_etc:/etc/memgraph
    env_file:
      - /path_to/.env  # Replace this with the actual path to your .env file
    entrypoint: ["/usr/bin/supervisord"]
volumes:
  mg_lib:
  mg_log:
  mg_etc:
```

and your `.env` file contains configuration flags you want to set:

```
MEMGRAPH="--log-level=TRACE"
```

The port `7687` is used for communication with Memgraph via Bolt protocol. The
port `3000` is exposed because Memgraph Lab will be running as a web application
on  `localhost:3000`, while the port `7444` is there so that you can see logs
from Memgraph inside Memgraph Lab. We specified three useful volumes:

- `mg_lib` - directory containing data that enables data persistency
- `mg_log` - directory containing log files
- `mg_etc` - directory containing the configuration file

The exact location of the local directories depends on your specific setup.

[Configuration settings](/configuration/configuration-settings) can be changed
by setting the value of the `MEMGRAPH` environment variable. In the above
example, you can see how to set `--log-level` to `TRACE`. Since Memgraph
Platform is not a single service, the process manager
[`supervisord`](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/multi-service_container/)
is used as the main running process in the `entrypoint`. The MAGE library is
included in this image, so you can use the available graph algorithms.
