pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Kubernetes

To include **standalone Memgraph** as a part of your Kubernetes cluster, you can
use the Helm chart provided in the [**Memgraph Helm charts
repository**](https://github.com/memgraph/helm-charts). Due to numerous possible
use cases and deployment setups via Kubernetes, the provided Helm chart is just
a starting point you can modify according to your needs. 

Memgraph Helm charts repository currently contains a chart for [**standalone
Memgraph deployment**](#helm-chart-for-standalone-memgraph) as a Kubernetes
`StatefulSet` workload, which is designed for services that require permanent
storage, such as databases. 

<Callout type="info"> 

The currently available Helm chart uses the latest
**Memgraph** Docker image from the [Docker
Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/memgraph/memgraph). For other Memgraph Docker
images (Memgraph MAGE or Memgraph Platform), modify the chart accordingly. We
are eager to see new pull requests on our [helm charts
repository](https://github.com/memgraph/helm-charts). 

</Callout>

## Helm chart for standalone Memgraph

Since [Helm chart for standalone
Memgraph](https://github.com/memgraph/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/memgraph) is
configured to deploy Memgraph as a Kubernetes `StatefulSet` workload, it is also
necessary to define a `PersistentVolumeClaims` to store [the data
directory](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup) (`/var/lib/memgraph`).
This enables the data to be persisted even if the pod is restarted or deleted. 

If you don't require data persistency or your dataset is static, there is no
need to use the `StatefulSet` workload. Stateful applications are more complex
to set up and maintain as they require more attention when handling storage
information and security.

To include standalone Memgraph as a part of your Kubernetes cluster, you need to
[**add the repository**](#add-the-repository) and [**install
Memgraph**](#install-memgraph).

### Add the repository

Add the Memgraph Helm chart repository to your local Helm setup by running the
following command:

```
helm repo add memgraph https://memgraph.github.io/helm-charts
```

Make sure to update the repository to fetch the latest Helm charts available:

```
helm repo update
```

### Install Memgraph

To install Memgraph Helm Chart, run the following command:
```
helm install <release-name> memgraph/memgraph
```
Replace `<release-name>` with the name of the release you chose.

### Access Memgraph

Once Memgraph is installed, you can access it using the provided services and
endpoints, such as various [client libraries](/client-libraries), command-line
interface [`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli) or visual user interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization).

### Configuration options

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Memgraph chart and
their default values.

parameter | description | default
--- | --- | ---
`image` | Memgraph Docker image repository | `memgraph`
`persistentVolumeClaim.storagePVC` | Enable persistent volume claim for storage | `true`
`persistanceVolumeClaim.storagePVCSize` | Size of the persistent volume claim for storage | `1Gi`
`persistentVolumeClaim.logPVC` | Enable persistent volume claim for logs | `true`
`persistanceVolumeClaim.logPVCSize` | Size of the persistent volume claim for logs | `256Mi`
`service.type` | Kubernetes service type | `NodePort`
`service.port` | Kubernetes service port | `7687`
`service.targetPort` | Kubernetes service target port | `7687`
`memgraphConfig` | Memgraph configuration settings | `["--also-log-to-stderr=true"]`

To change the default chart values, provide your own `values.yaml` file during the installation:

```
helm install <resource-name> memgraph/memgraph -f values.yaml
```

Default chart values can also be changed by setting the values of appropriate parameters:

```
helm install <resource-name> memgraph/memgraph --set <flag1>=<value1>,<flag2>=<value2>,...
```

<Callout type="info">

Memgraph will start with the `--also-log-to-stderr=true` flag, meaning the logs
will also be written to the standard error output and you can access logs using
the `kubectl logs` command. To modify other Memgraph database settings, you
should update the `memgraphConfig` parameter. It should be a list of strings
defining the values of Memgraph configuration settings. For example, this is how
you can define `memgraphConfig` parameter in your `values.yaml`:

```
memgraphConfig: 
  - "--also-log-to-stderr=true"
  - "--log-level=TRACE"
```

For all available database settings, refer to the [Configuration settings
reference guide](/configuration/configuration-settings).

</Callout>

<Callout type="info">

Since Memgraph Docker image has root privileges on the data located on volumes
and log directories, it is necessary that `runAsUser` is set to `0` in the
`securityContext` section of the pod to override the `memgraph` user from the
Docker image. Currently, Memgraph must have root privileges on the volumes. 

</Callout>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes.mdx, after:

---
title: Kubernetes
description: Unfold Memgraph's interplay with Kubernetes via our documentation. Empowering you to harness the strength of graph solution and container orchestration.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Kubernetes

To include **standalone Memgraph** as a part of your Kubernetes cluster, you can
use the Helm chart provided in the [**Memgraph Helm charts
repository**](https://github.com/memgraph/helm-charts). Due to numerous possible
use cases and deployment setups via Kubernetes, the provided Helm chart is just
a starting point you can modify according to your needs. 

Memgraph Helm charts repository currently contains a chart for [**standalone
Memgraph deployment**](#helm-chart-for-standalone-memgraph) as a Kubernetes
`StatefulSet` workload, which is designed for services that require permanent
storage, such as databases. 

<Callout type="info"> 

The currently available Helm chart uses the latest
**Memgraph** Docker image from the [Docker
Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/memgraph/memgraph). For other Memgraph Docker
images (Memgraph MAGE or Memgraph Platform), modify the chart accordingly. We
are eager to see new pull requests on our [helm charts
repository](https://github.com/memgraph/helm-charts). 

</Callout>

## Helm chart for standalone Memgraph

Since [Helm chart for standalone
Memgraph](https://github.com/memgraph/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/memgraph) is
configured to deploy Memgraph as a Kubernetes `StatefulSet` workload, it is also
necessary to define a `PersistentVolumeClaims` to store [the data
directory](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup) (`/var/lib/memgraph`).
This enables the data to be persisted even if the pod is restarted or deleted. 

If you don't require data persistency or your dataset is static, there is no
need to use the `StatefulSet` workload. Stateful applications are more complex
to set up and maintain as they require more attention when handling storage
information and security.

To include standalone Memgraph as a part of your Kubernetes cluster, you need to
[**add the repository**](#add-the-repository) and [**install
Memgraph**](#install-memgraph).

### Add the repository

Add the Memgraph Helm chart repository to your local Helm setup by running the
following command:

```
helm repo add memgraph https://memgraph.github.io/helm-charts
```

Make sure to update the repository to fetch the latest Helm charts available:

```
helm repo update
```

### Install Memgraph

To install Memgraph Helm Chart, run the following command:
```
helm install <release-name> memgraph/memgraph
```
Replace `<release-name>` with the name of the release you chose.

### Access Memgraph

Once Memgraph is installed, you can access it using the provided services and
endpoints, such as various [client libraries](/client-libraries), command-line
interface [`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli) or visual user interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization).

### Configuration options

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the Memgraph chart and
their default values.

parameter | description | default
--- | --- | ---
`image` | Memgraph Docker image repository | `memgraph`
`persistentVolumeClaim.storagePVC` | Enable persistent volume claim for storage | `true`
`persistanceVolumeClaim.storagePVCSize` | Size of the persistent volume claim for storage | `1Gi`
`persistentVolumeClaim.logPVC` | Enable persistent volume claim for logs | `true`
`persistanceVolumeClaim.logPVCSize` | Size of the persistent volume claim for logs | `256Mi`
`service.type` | Kubernetes service type | `NodePort`
`service.port` | Kubernetes service port | `7687`
`service.targetPort` | Kubernetes service target port | `7687`
`memgraphConfig` | Memgraph configuration settings | `["--also-log-to-stderr=true"]`

To change the default chart values, provide your own `values.yaml` file during the installation:

```
helm install <resource-name> memgraph/memgraph -f values.yaml
```

Default chart values can also be changed by setting the values of appropriate parameters:

```
helm install <resource-name> memgraph/memgraph --set <flag1>=<value1>,<flag2>=<value2>,...
```

<Callout type="info">

Memgraph will start with the `--also-log-to-stderr=true` flag, meaning the logs
will also be written to the standard error output and you can access logs using
the `kubectl logs` command. To modify other Memgraph database settings, you
should update the `memgraphConfig` parameter. It should be a list of strings
defining the values of Memgraph configuration settings. For example, this is how
you can define `memgraphConfig` parameter in your `values.yaml`:

```
memgraphConfig: 
  - "--also-log-to-stderr=true"
  - "--log-level=TRACE"
```

For all available database settings, refer to the [Configuration settings
reference guide](/configuration/configuration-settings).

</Callout>

<Callout type="info">

Since Memgraph Docker image has root privileges on the data located on volumes
and log directories, it is necessary that `runAsUser` is set to `0` in the
`securityContext` section of the pod to override the `memgraph` user from the
Docker image. Currently, Memgraph must have root privileges on the volumes. 

</Callout>
