pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/rocky.mdx, before:

---
title: Install Memgraph on Rocky from RPM package
description: Install Memgraph from RPM package on Rocky simply and efficiently using our documentation. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'

# Install Memgraph on Rocky from RPM package

Install and run Memgraph from a RPM package on: 
  - **Rocky 9.3**

<Callout type="warning"> 
Newer versions of Memgraph might not be backward
compatible with older versions and you might not be able to load storage
snapshots between different versions. In that case, please contact the Memgraph
team and we'll help with the migration as much as possible.
 </Callout>

 ## Installation guide

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Download Memgraph RPM Rocky Package</h3>}

Downloaded the latest Memgraph RPM Rocky package from the [Memgraph Download
Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/).

You can also use [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links) to get the
latest Memgraph packages. 

For example:

<CodeSnippet code="sudo wget https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v3.0.0/rocky-9.3/memgraph-3.0.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" page="install-memgraph/rocky" os="rocky"/>

<Callout>

For the latest version of Memgraph, replace the version in the download command
with the one from the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links) page.

</Callout>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Install Memgraph</h3>}

After downloading the Memgraph RPM package, you can install it by issuing the
following command:

```
sudo dnf install -y ./memgraph-3.0.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm
```

If you run into any troubles while installing Memgraph, contact us on
[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph).

{<h3 className="custom-header">Start Memgraph</h3>}

After successful installation, Memgraph can be started as a service using the
following command:

```
sudo systemctl start memgraph
```
To verify that Memgraph is running, run the following command:

```
journalctl --unit memgraph
```

If successful, you should receive an output similar to the following:

```
You are running Memgraph vX.X.X
```

If you want the Memgraph database instance to start automatically on each startup, run the
following command:

```
systemctl enable memgraph
```

You can also check the status of the Memgraph database instance by running:
```
systemctl status memgraph
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Troubleshooting</h4>}

When you start a Memgraph instance, you may see the following list of notes in
your terminal:

```
You are running Memgraph v1.4.0-community

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use graph_analyzer module. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use Memgraph NetworkX wrappers. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx, numpy, scipy to be able to use proxied NetworkX algorithms. E.g., CALL nxalg.pagerank(...).
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use wcc module.
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]
```

If you wish to work with built-in NetworkX modules in Memgraph, you need to
install the following Python libraries:
* [NumPy](https://numpy.org/)
* [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org/)
* [NetworkX](https://networkx.org/)

For more information on how to install Python libraries in Linux, follow the
[Installing Packages
guide](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/). If you are
not interested in working with query modules that depend on these libraries, you
can ignore the warnings.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Connect to the database</h3>}

To [query](/querying) the database from the console, you need to install
[`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli). 

You can also connect to the database using one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) or visual-user interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization).

</Steps>

## Stop Memgraph

To shut down the Memgraph server, issue the following command:

```
systemctl stop memgraph
```

## Start Memgraph

Memgraph can be started as a service using the following command:

```
systemctl start memgraph
```

## Configuration

<Callout type="info">

If you're experiencing issues related to the maximum number of memory map areas,
you can resolve them by [adjusting the `vm.max_map_count`
parameter](/configuration/system-configuration#increasing-memory-map-areas). Keep in
mind that the linked configuration guide is not written for Rocky, steps will be 
different, but the goal is the same.

</Callout>

The Memgraph configuration is available in `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf`. If the
configuration file is altered, Memgraph needs to be restarted. Check all the
configuration options in the [configuration
settings](/database-management/configuration).

Commit message:

Update direct download links (#1190)
* Update direct download links

* Update centos to 10

* update amazon and rocky - discontinued

* update to hidden

* update

* alphabetical order

pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/rocky.mdx, after:

---
title: Install Memgraph on Rocky from RPM package
description: Install Memgraph from RPM package on Rocky simply and efficiently using our documentation. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'

# Install Memgraph on Rocky from RPM package

<Callout type="warning"> 
The last released Memgraph RPM package for Rocky was for version 3.0.0. If you
require a package for a newer version, please [open an
issue](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/issues) on the Memgraph GitHub
repository. 
 </Callout>

Install and run Memgraph from a RPM package on: 
  - **Rocky 9.3**

<Callout type="warning"> 
Newer versions of Memgraph might not be backward
compatible with older versions and you might not be able to load storage
snapshots between different versions. In that case, please contact the Memgraph
team and we'll help with the migration as much as possible.
 </Callout>

 ## Installation guide

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Download Memgraph RPM Rocky Package</h3>}

Downloaded the latest Memgraph RPM Rocky package from the [Memgraph Download
Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/).

You can also use [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links) to get the
latest Memgraph packages. 

For example:

<CodeSnippet code="sudo wget https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v3.0.0/rocky-9.3/memgraph-3.0.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm" page="install-memgraph/rocky" os="rocky"/>

<Callout>

For the latest version of Memgraph, replace the version in the download command
with the one from the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links) page.

</Callout>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Install Memgraph</h3>}

After downloading the Memgraph RPM package, you can install it by issuing the
following command:

```
sudo dnf install -y ./memgraph-3.0.0_1-1.x86_64.rpm
```

If you run into any troubles while installing Memgraph, contact us on
[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph).

{<h3 className="custom-header">Start Memgraph</h3>}

After successful installation, Memgraph can be started as a service using the
following command:

```
sudo systemctl start memgraph
```
To verify that Memgraph is running, run the following command:

```
journalctl --unit memgraph
```

If successful, you should receive an output similar to the following:

```
You are running Memgraph vX.X.X
```

If you want the Memgraph database instance to start automatically on each startup, run the
following command:

```
systemctl enable memgraph
```

You can also check the status of the Memgraph database instance by running:
```
systemctl status memgraph
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Troubleshooting</h4>}

When you start a Memgraph instance, you may see the following list of notes in
your terminal:

```
You are running Memgraph v1.4.0-community

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use graph_analyzer module. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use Memgraph NetworkX wrappers. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx, numpy, scipy to be able to use proxied NetworkX algorithms. E.g., CALL nxalg.pagerank(...).
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use wcc module.
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]
```

If you wish to work with built-in NetworkX modules in Memgraph, you need to
install the following Python libraries:
* [NumPy](https://numpy.org/)
* [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org/)
* [NetworkX](https://networkx.org/)

For more information on how to install Python libraries in Linux, follow the
[Installing Packages
guide](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/). If you are
not interested in working with query modules that depend on these libraries, you
can ignore the warnings.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Connect to the database</h3>}

To [query](/querying) the database from the console, you need to install
[`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli). 

You can also connect to the database using one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) or visual-user interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization).

</Steps>

## Stop Memgraph

To shut down the Memgraph server, issue the following command:

```
systemctl stop memgraph
```

## Start Memgraph

Memgraph can be started as a service using the following command:

```
systemctl start memgraph
```

## Configuration

<Callout type="info">

If you're experiencing issues related to the maximum number of memory map areas,
you can resolve them by [adjusting the `vm.max_map_count`
parameter](/configuration/system-configuration#increasing-memory-map-areas). Keep in
mind that the linked configuration guide is not written for Rocky, steps will be 
different, but the goal is the same.

</Callout>

The Memgraph configuration is available in `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf`. If the
configuration file is altered, Memgraph needs to be restarted. Check all the
configuration options in the [configuration
settings](/database-management/configuration).
