pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu.mdx, before:

---
title: Install Memgraph on Ubuntu
description: Downloaded the Memgraph Ubuntu package without a hassle. Your resource for improved graph computing execution.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'

# Install Memgraph on Ubuntu

Install and run Memgraph on:
  - **Ubuntu 18.04**
  - **Ubuntu 20.04**
  - **Ubuntu 22.04**

<Callout type="warning"> 
Newer versions of Memgraph might not be backward
compatible with older versions and you might not be able to load storage
snapshots between different versions. In that case, please contact the Memgraph
team and we'll help with the migration as much as possible.
 </Callout>

## Installation guide

<Steps>

{<h3>Download Memgraph Ubuntu Package</h3>}

Downloaded the latest Memgraph Ubuntu Package from the [Memgraph Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/).

You can also use [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links) to get the
latest Memgraph packages. 

For example, the following command will install Memgraph v2.10.0:

```console
sudo wget https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.10.0/ubuntu-22.04/memgraph_2.10.0-1_amd64.deb
```

For the latest version, be sure to replace the version number with the latest package.

{<h3>Install Memgraph</h3>}

After downloading Memgraph as an Ubuntu package, install it by running the
following:

```console
sudo dpkg -i /path-to/memgraph_<version>.deb
```

<Callout type="info"> 

Why use sudo? 

In order to perform some actions on your operating system like installing new
software, you may need **superuser** privileges (commonly called **root**).

</Callout>

{<h4>Troubleshooting</h4>}

**Unable to install the Memgraph package with `dpkg`**

While running the following `dpkg` command:

```bash
dpkg -i /path-to/memgraph_<version>.deb
```

you may encounter errors that resemble the following:

```console
dpkg: error processing package memgraph (--install): dependency problems -
leaving unconfigured Errors were encountered while processing: memgraph
```

These errors indicate that you don’t have all of the necessary dependencies
installed. To install the missing dependencies and finish the installation,
issue the following command:

```console
sudo apt-get install -f
```

{<h3>Verify that Memgraph is running</h3>}

To verify that Memgraph is running, run the following:

```console
sudo journalctl --unit memgraph
```

If successful, you should receive an output similar to the following:

```console
You are running Memgraph vX.X.X
```

If the Memgraph database instance is not running, you can start it explicitly:

```console
sudo systemctl start memgraph
```

{<h4>Troubleshooting</h4>}

When you start a Memgraph instance, you may see the following list of notes in
your terminal:

```console
You are running Memgraph v1.4.0-community

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use graph_analyzer module. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use Memgraph NetworkX wrappers. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx, numpy, scipy to be able to use proxied NetworkX algorithms. E.g., CALL nxalg.pagerank(...).
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use wcc module.
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]
```

If you wish to work with built-in NetworkX modules in Memgraph, you need to
install the following Python libraries:
* [NumPy](https://numpy.org/)
* [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org/)
* [NetworkX](https://networkx.org/)

For more information on how to install Python libraries in Linux, follow the
[Installing Packages
guide](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/). If you are
not interested in working with query modules that depend on these libraries, you
can ignore the warnings.

If you run into any troubles while installing Memgraph, contact us on
[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph).

{<h3>Connect to the database</h3>}

To [query](/querying) the database from the console, you need to install
[`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli). 

You can also connect to the database using one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) or visual-user interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization).

</Steps>

## Stop Memgraph

To shut down the Memgraph server, issue the following command:

```console
sudo systemctl stop memgraph
```

## Start Memgraph

To start the Memgraph server, issue the following command:

```console
sudo systemctl start memgraph
```

## Configuration

<Callout type="info">

If you're experiencing issues related to the maximum number of memory map areas,
you can resolve them by [adjusting the `vm.max_map_count`
parameter](https://memgraph.com/docs/configuration/system-configuration#increasing-memory-map-areas). 

</Callout>

The Memgraph configuration is available in `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf`. If the
configuration file is altered, Memgraph needs to be restarted. Check all the
configuration options in the [Configuration
section](/configuration/configuration-settings).

Commit message:

[main < 489-add-link] Update direct download links callout (#506)
* Add info boxes

* Update RPM link

* Update codesnippet

pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu.mdx, after:

---
title: Install Memgraph on Ubuntu
description: Downloaded the Memgraph Ubuntu package without a hassle. Your resource for improved graph computing execution.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'

# Install Memgraph on Ubuntu

Install and run Memgraph on:
  - **Ubuntu 18.04**
  - **Ubuntu 20.04**
  - **Ubuntu 22.04**

<Callout type="warning"> 
Newer versions of Memgraph might not be backward
compatible with older versions and you might not be able to load storage
snapshots between different versions. In that case, please contact the Memgraph
team and we'll help with the migration as much as possible.
 </Callout>

## Installation guide

<Steps>

{<h3>Download Memgraph Ubuntu Package</h3>}

Downloaded the latest Memgraph Ubuntu Package from the [Memgraph Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/).

You can also use [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links) to get the
latest Memgraph packages. 

For example, the following command will download Memgraph v2.14.1:

<CodeSnippet code="sudo wget https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.14.1/ubuntu-22.04/memgraph_2.14.1-1_amd64.deb" page="install-memgraph/ubuntu"/>

<Callout>

For the latest version of Memgraph, replace the version in the download command
with the one from the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links) page.

</Callout>

{<h3>Install Memgraph</h3>}

After downloading Memgraph as an Ubuntu package, install it by running the
following:

```console
sudo dpkg -i /path-to/memgraph_<version>.deb
```

<Callout type="info"> 

Why use sudo? 

In order to perform some actions on your operating system like installing new
software, you may need **superuser** privileges (commonly called **root**).

</Callout>

{<h4>Troubleshooting</h4>}

**Unable to install the Memgraph package with `dpkg`**

While running the following `dpkg` command:

```bash
dpkg -i /path-to/memgraph_<version>.deb
```

you may encounter errors that resemble the following:

```console
dpkg: error processing package memgraph (--install): dependency problems -
leaving unconfigured Errors were encountered while processing: memgraph
```

These errors indicate that you don’t have all of the necessary dependencies
installed. To install the missing dependencies and finish the installation,
issue the following command:

```console
sudo apt-get install -f
```

{<h3>Verify that Memgraph is running</h3>}

To verify that Memgraph is running, run the following:

```console
sudo journalctl --unit memgraph
```

If successful, you should receive an output similar to the following:

```console
You are running Memgraph vX.X.X
```

If the Memgraph database instance is not running, you can start it explicitly:

```console
sudo systemctl start memgraph
```

{<h4>Troubleshooting</h4>}

When you start a Memgraph instance, you may see the following list of notes in
your terminal:

```console
You are running Memgraph v1.4.0-community

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use graph_analyzer module. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use Memgraph NetworkX wrappers. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx, numpy, scipy to be able to use proxied NetworkX algorithms. E.g., CALL nxalg.pagerank(...).
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use wcc module.
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]
```

If you wish to work with built-in NetworkX modules in Memgraph, you need to
install the following Python libraries:
* [NumPy](https://numpy.org/)
* [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org/)
* [NetworkX](https://networkx.org/)

For more information on how to install Python libraries in Linux, follow the
[Installing Packages
guide](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/installing-packages/). If you are
not interested in working with query modules that depend on these libraries, you
can ignore the warnings.

If you run into any troubles while installing Memgraph, contact us on
[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph).

{<h3>Connect to the database</h3>}

To [query](/querying) the database from the console, you need to install
[`mgconsole`](/getting-started/cli). 

You can also connect to the database using one of the [client
libraries](/client-libraries) or visual-user interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization).

</Steps>

## Stop Memgraph

To shut down the Memgraph server, issue the following command:

```console
sudo systemctl stop memgraph
```

## Start Memgraph

To start the Memgraph server, issue the following command:

```console
sudo systemctl start memgraph
```

## Configuration

<Callout type="info">

If you're experiencing issues related to the maximum number of memory map areas,
you can resolve them by [adjusting the `vm.max_map_count`
parameter](https://memgraph.com/docs/configuration/system-configuration#increasing-memory-map-areas). 

</Callout>

The Memgraph configuration is available in `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf`. If the
configuration file is altered, Memgraph needs to be restarted. Check all the
configuration options in the [Configuration
section](/configuration/configuration-settings).
