pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/wsl.mdx, before:

---
title: Install Memgraph on Windows with WSL
description: Get started with Memgraph on Windows with WSL. Our comprehensive guide explains it all, easing your way into effective graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'

#  Install Memgraph on Windows with WSL

This article briefly outlines the basic steps necessary to install and run
Memgraph on Windows with the Windows Subsystem for Linux.

<Callout type="warning"> 
Newer versions of Memgraph might not be backward
compatible with older versions and you might not be able to load storage
snapshots between different versions. In that case, please contact the Memgraph
team and we'll help with the migration as much as possible.
 </Callout>

## Prerequisites

Before you proceed with the installation guide make sure that you have:

- The latest **Memgraph Ubuntu package** which can be downloaded from the
  [Memgraph Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/).
- Installed **Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)**. For detailed instructions,
  refer to the [Microsoft
  documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install).

## Installation guide

<Steps>
{<h3>Start Ubuntu</h3>}

Run the command below from PowerShell to launch Ubuntu:

```console
ubuntu
```
<Callout type="info">
You can also run Ubuntu from the *Start* menu.
</Callout>

{<h3>Install Memgraph</h3>}

To set up the Memgraph database, use the command below in the Ubuntu terminal:

<CodeSnippet code="sudo dpkg -i /mnt/<drive>/Users/<windows username>/Downloads/memgraph_<version>.deb" page="install-memgraph/wsl"/>

<Callout type="info"> 
You can also obtain the Memgraph package using the [direct download link](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links). On that page, you will always find the links to the latest release. Make sure to replace the link in the command below with the most recent one: 
```console
wget [YOUR_DIRECT_DOWNLOAD_LINK_HERE] -O memgraph.deb 
sudo dpkg -i memgraph.deb
```

For example, the command for version 2.10.1 on Ubuntu 20.04 would look like:

```console
wget https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.10.1/ubuntu-20.04/memgraph_2.10.1-1_amd64.deb -O memgraph.deb
sudo dpkg -i memgraph.deb
```    
</Callout>

After the installation is done Memgraph will start automatically. 

{<h3>Verify that Memgraph is running</h3>}

To verify that Memgraph is running, run the following:

```console
sudo journalctl --unit memgraph
```

If successful, you should receive an output similar to the following:

```console
You are running Memgraph vX.X.X
```
<Callout type="info"> 
If the Memgraph database instance is not running, you can start it explicitly:

```
sudo runuser -l memgraph -c '/usr/lib/memgraph/memgraph'
```

If successful, you should receive an output similar to the following:

```
You are running Memgraph vX.X.X
```
</Callout>

If you want to start Memgraph with different configuration settings, check out
the [Configuration section](#configuration).<br/>
At this point, Memgraph is ready for you
to [submit queries](/querying).

<Callout type="warning">
Potential installation error You could get errors while installing the package
with the above commands if you don't have all of Memgraph's dependencies
installed. The issues mostly look like the following:

```
dpkg: error processing package memgraph (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Errors were encountered while processing:
 memgraph
```

To install missing dependencies and finish the installation of the Memgraph
package, just issue the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install -f
```

The above command will install all missing dependencies and will finish
configuring the Memgraph package.
</Callout>
</Steps>


## Configuration

The Memgraph configuration file is available at `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf`. If the
configuration file is altered, Memgraph needs to be restarted. 

To learn about
all the configuration options, check out the [Reference
guide](/configuration/configuration-settings).

## Troubleshooting

### Accessing files from your Windows system

Usually, you can find the Windows users directories in this location:

```console
/mnt/<drive>/Users/<username>
```

### Unable to install the Memgraph package with `dpkg`

While running the following `dpkg` command:

```bash
sudo dpkg -i /mnt/<drive>/Users/<windows username>/Downloads/memgraph_<version>.deb
```

you may encounter errors that resemble the following:

```console
dpkg: error processing package memgraph (--install): dependency problems -
leaving unconfigured Errors were encountered while processing: memgraph
```

These errors indicate that you don’t have all of the necessary dependencies
installed. To install the missing dependencies and finish the installation,
issue the following command:

```console
sudo apt-get install -f
```

### Multiple notes when starting Memgraph

When you start a Memgraph instance, you may see the following list of notes in
your terminal:

```console
You are running Memgraph v1.4.0-community

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use graph_analyzer module. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use Memgraph NetworkX wrappers. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx, numpy, scipy to be able to use proxied NetworkX algorithms. E.g., CALL nxalg.pagerank(...).
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use wcc module.
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]
```

If you wish to work with built-in NetworkX modules in Memgraph, you need to
install the following Python libraries:
* [NumPy](https://numpy.org/)
* [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org/)
* [NetworkX](https://networkx.org/)

For more information on how to install Python libraries in WSL, follow the [Python
installation
guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/python/web-frameworks#install-python-pip-and-venv).
If you are not interested in working with query modules that depend on these
libraries, you can ignore the warnings.

For more information on the installation process and for additional questions,
visit the **[Help Center](/help-center)** page.

Commit message:

[main < 489-add-link] Update direct download links callout (#506)
* Add info boxes

* Update RPM link

* Update codesnippet

pages/getting-started/install-memgraph/wsl.mdx, after:

---
title: Install Memgraph on Windows with WSL
description: Get started with Memgraph on Windows with WSL. Our comprehensive guide explains it all, easing your way into effective graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'

#  Install Memgraph on Windows with WSL

This article briefly outlines the basic steps necessary to install and run
Memgraph on Windows with the Windows Subsystem for Linux.

<Callout type="warning"> 
Newer versions of Memgraph might not be backward
compatible with older versions and you might not be able to load storage
snapshots between different versions. In that case, please contact the Memgraph
team and we'll help with the migration as much as possible.
 </Callout>

## Prerequisites

Before you proceed with the installation guide make sure that you have:

- The latest **Memgraph Ubuntu package** which can be downloaded from the
  [Memgraph Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/).
- Installed **Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)**. For detailed instructions,
  refer to the [Microsoft
  documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install).

## Installation guide

<Steps>
{<h3>Start Ubuntu</h3>}

Run the command below from PowerShell to launch Ubuntu:

```console
ubuntu
```
<Callout type="info">
You can also run Ubuntu from the *Start* menu.
</Callout>

{<h3>Install Memgraph</h3>}

To set up the Memgraph database, use the command below in the Ubuntu terminal:

<CodeSnippet code="sudo dpkg -i /mnt/<drive>/Users/<windows username>/Downloads/memgraph_<version>.deb" page="install-memgraph/wsl"/>

<Callout type="info"> 
You can also obtain the Memgraph package using the [direct download link](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links). On that page, you will always find the links to the latest release. Make sure to replace the link in the command below with the most recent one: 
```console
wget [YOUR_DIRECT_DOWNLOAD_LINK_HERE] -O memgraph.deb 
sudo dpkg -i memgraph.deb
```

For example, the command for version 2.14.1 on Ubuntu 20.04 would look like:

```console
wget https://download.memgraph.com/memgraph/v2.14.1/ubuntu-20.04/memgraph_2.14.1-1_amd64.deb -O memgraph.deb
sudo dpkg -i memgraph.deb
```    

For the latest version of Memgraph, replace the version in the download command
with the one from the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links) page.

</Callout>

After the installation is done Memgraph will start automatically. 

{<h3>Verify that Memgraph is running</h3>}

To verify that Memgraph is running, run the following:

```console
sudo journalctl --unit memgraph
```

If successful, you should receive an output similar to the following:

```console
You are running Memgraph vX.X.X
```
<Callout type="info"> 
If the Memgraph database instance is not running, you can start it explicitly:

```
sudo runuser -l memgraph -c '/usr/lib/memgraph/memgraph'
```

If successful, you should receive an output similar to the following:

```
You are running Memgraph vX.X.X
```
</Callout>

If you want to start Memgraph with different configuration settings, check out
the [Configuration section](#configuration).<br/>
At this point, Memgraph is ready for you
to [submit queries](/querying).

<Callout type="warning">
Potential installation error You could get errors while installing the package
with the above commands if you don't have all of Memgraph's dependencies
installed. The issues mostly look like the following:

```
dpkg: error processing package memgraph (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Errors were encountered while processing:
 memgraph
```

To install missing dependencies and finish the installation of the Memgraph
package, just issue the following command:

```
sudo apt-get install -f
```

The above command will install all missing dependencies and will finish
configuring the Memgraph package.
</Callout>
</Steps>


## Configuration

The Memgraph configuration file is available at `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf`. If the
configuration file is altered, Memgraph needs to be restarted. 

To learn about
all the configuration options, check out the [Reference
guide](/configuration/configuration-settings).

## Troubleshooting

### Accessing files from your Windows system

Usually, you can find the Windows users directories in this location:

```console
/mnt/<drive>/Users/<username>
```

### Unable to install the Memgraph package with `dpkg`

While running the following `dpkg` command:

```bash
sudo dpkg -i /mnt/<drive>/Users/<windows username>/Downloads/memgraph_<version>.deb
```

you may encounter errors that resemble the following:

```console
dpkg: error processing package memgraph (--install): dependency problems -
leaving unconfigured Errors were encountered while processing: memgraph
```

These errors indicate that you don’t have all of the necessary dependencies
installed. To install the missing dependencies and finish the installation,
issue the following command:

```console
sudo apt-get install -f
```

### Multiple notes when starting Memgraph

When you start a Memgraph instance, you may see the following list of notes in
your terminal:

```console
You are running Memgraph v1.4.0-community

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use graph_analyzer module. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use Memgraph NetworkX wrappers. Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx, numpy, scipy to be able to use proxied NetworkX algorithms. E.g., CALL nxalg.pagerank(...).
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]

NOTE: Please install networkx to be able to use wcc module.
Using Python:
3.8.2 (default, Jul 16 2020, 14:00:26)
[GCC 9.3.0]
```

If you wish to work with built-in NetworkX modules in Memgraph, you need to
install the following Python libraries:
* [NumPy](https://numpy.org/)
* [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org/)
* [NetworkX](https://networkx.org/)

For more information on how to install Python libraries in WSL, follow the [Python
installation
guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/python/web-frameworks#install-python-pip-and-venv).
If you are not interested in working with query modules that depend on these
libraries, you can ignore the warnings.

For more information on the installation process and for additional questions,
visit the **[Help Center](/help-center)** page.
