pages/querying/clauses.mdx, before:

# Clauses

The **Cypher** language enables users to perform standard database operations by
using the following clauses:

  * [`CALL`](/querying/clauses/call) - calls a subquery inside the query
  * [`CASE`](/querying/clauses/case) - allows the creation of conditional expressions
  * [`CREATE`](/querying/clauses/create) - creates new nodes and relationships
  * [`DELETE`](/querying/clauses/delete) - deletes nodes and relationships
  * [`EXPLAIN`](/querying/clauses/explain) - inspect a particular Cypher query
in order to see its execution plan.
  * [`FOREACH`](/querying/clauses/foreach) - iterates over a list of elements
and stores each element inside a variable
  * [`LOAD CSV`](/data-migration/csv) - loads data from CSV file
  * [`MATCH`](/querying/clauses/match) - searches for patterns
  * [`MERGE`](/querying/clauses/merge) - creates patterns if they don't exist
  * [`OPTIONAL MATCH`](/querying/clauses/optional-match) - behaves the same as [`MATCH`](/querying/clauses/match), but when it fails to find the pattern it fills missing parts of the pattern with null values
  * [`PROFILE`](/querying/clauses/profile) - profiles the execution of a query returns a detailed
report on how the query's plan behaved
  * [`REMOVE`](/querying/clauses/remove) - removes labels and properties
  * [`RETURN`](/querying/clauses/return) - defines what will be presented to the user in the result set
  * [`SET`](/querying/clauses/set) - adds new or updates existing labels and properties
  * [`UNION`](/querying/clauses/union) and [`UNION ALL`](/querying/clauses/union) - combines results from multiple queries
  * [`UNWIND`](/querying/clauses/unwind) - unwinds a list of values as individual rows
  * [`WHERE`](/querying/clauses/where) - filters the matched data
  * [`WITH`](/querying/clauses/with) - combines multiple reads and writes

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/querying/clauses.mdx, after:

---
title: Clauses
description: Master the use of clauses in Memgraph for enhanced graph computing. A comprehensive guide designed to make the complex simple.
---

# Clauses

The **Cypher** language enables users to perform standard database operations by
using the following clauses:

  * [`CALL`](/querying/clauses/call) - calls a subquery inside the query
  * [`CASE`](/querying/clauses/case) - allows the creation of conditional expressions
  * [`CREATE`](/querying/clauses/create) - creates new nodes and relationships
  * [`DELETE`](/querying/clauses/delete) - deletes nodes and relationships
  * [`EXPLAIN`](/querying/clauses/explain) - inspect a particular Cypher query
in order to see its execution plan.
  * [`FOREACH`](/querying/clauses/foreach) - iterates over a list of elements
and stores each element inside a variable
  * [`LOAD CSV`](/data-migration/csv) - loads data from CSV file
  * [`MATCH`](/querying/clauses/match) - searches for patterns
  * [`MERGE`](/querying/clauses/merge) - creates patterns if they don't exist
  * [`OPTIONAL MATCH`](/querying/clauses/optional-match) - behaves the same as [`MATCH`](/querying/clauses/match), but when it fails to find the pattern it fills missing parts of the pattern with null values
  * [`PROFILE`](/querying/clauses/profile) - profiles the execution of a query returns a detailed
report on how the query's plan behaved
  * [`REMOVE`](/querying/clauses/remove) - removes labels and properties
  * [`RETURN`](/querying/clauses/return) - defines what will be presented to the user in the result set
  * [`SET`](/querying/clauses/set) - adds new or updates existing labels and properties
  * [`UNION`](/querying/clauses/union) and [`UNION ALL`](/querying/clauses/union) - combines results from multiple queries
  * [`UNWIND`](/querying/clauses/unwind) - unwinds a list of values as individual rows
  * [`WHERE`](/querying/clauses/where) - filters the matched data
  * [`WITH`](/querying/clauses/with) - combines multiple reads and writes
