pages/querying/create-graph-objects.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Create graph objects

For creating graph objects, you can use the following clauses.

- `CREATE`, for creating new nodes and relationships.
- `SET`, for adding new or updating existing labels and properties.

You can still use the `RETURN` clause to produce results after writing, but it
is not mandatory.

Details on which kind of data can be stored in Memgraph can be found in the
[Storage](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage) chapter.

<Callout type="info">

Indexing can increase performance when executing queries. Please take a look at
our [documentation on indexing](/fundamentals/indexes) for
more details.

</Callout>

## CREATE

This clause is used to add new nodes and relationships to the database. The creation is
done by providing a pattern, similarly to `MATCH` clause.

For example, use this query to create two new nodes connected with a new relationship.

```cypher
CREATE (node1)-[:RELATIONSHIP_TYPE]->(node2);
```

Labels and properties can be set during creation using the same syntax as in
`MATCH` patterns. For example, creating a node with a label and a property:

```cypher
CREATE (node:Label {property: 'my property value'});
```

Additional information on `CREATE` is available [here](/querying/clauses/create).

## WITH

The write part of the query cannot be simply followed by another read part. To
combine them, the `WITH` clause must be used. The names this clause establishes
are transferred from one part to another.

For example, creating a node and finding all nodes with the same property.

```cypher
CREATE (node {property: 42}) WITH node.property AS propValue
MATCH (n {property: propValue}) RETURN n;
```

Note that the `node` is not visible after `WITH`, since only `node.property` was
carried over.

This clause behaves very much like `RETURN`, so you should refer to features of
`RETURN`.

## MERGE

The `MERGE` clause is used to ensure that a pattern you are looking for exists
in the database. This means that it will be created if the pattern is not found.
In a way, this clause is like a combination of `MATCH` and `CREATE`.

For example, ensure that a person has at least one friend:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Person) MERGE (n)-[:FRIENDS_WITH]->(m);
```

The clause also provides additional features for updating the values depending
on whether the pattern was created or matched. This is achieved with `ON CREATE`
and `ON MATCH` sub clauses.

For example, set different properties depending on what `MERGE` did:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Person) MERGE (n)-[:FRIENDS_WITH]->(m)
ON CREATE SET m.prop = "created" ON MATCH SET m.prop = "existed";
```

For more details, check out [this guide](/querying/clauses/merge).

## Import existing data from CSV

Using CSV files is just one of the ways to [import your
data](/data-migration) into Memgraph. The `LOAD CSV` clause enables
you to [load and use data](/data-migration/csv) from a
CSV file. Memgraph supports the Excel CSV dialect, as it's the most commonly
used one. For the syntax of the clause, please check the [LOAD
CSV](/data-migration/csv) page in the Cypher manual.

## Relationships

**Relationships** (or edges) are the **lines that connect nodes** to each other
and represent a defined connection between them. Every relationship has a source
node and a target node that represent in which direction the relationship works.
If this direction is important, the relationship is considered directed,
otherwise, it's undirected.

Relationships can also store data in the form of **properties**, just as nodes.
In most cases, relationships store quantitative properties such as weight,
costs, distances, ratings, etc.

![](/pages/querying/connecting-nodes/connecting-nodes.png)

In our example, the relationship between two nodes labeled `Person` could be of
the type `MARRIED_TO`. The relationship between `Person` and `City` is
represented by the type `LIVES_IN`.

The relationship of the type `MARRIED_TO` has the property `weddingDate`, which
represents the date when the marriage was formed. Relationships of the type
`LIVES_IN` have the property `durationInYears` which denotes how long a person
has lived in the specified location.

### Creating relationships

To create a relationship between two nodes, we need to specify which nodes
either by creating them or filtering them with the `WHERE` clause:

```cypher
CREATE (p1:Person {name: 'Harry'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
CREATE (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```

If the nodes already existed, the query would look like this:

```cypher
MATCH (p1:Person),(p2:Person)
WHERE p1.name = 'Harry' AND p2.name = 'Anna'
CREATE (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```

Instead of using the `CREATE` clause, you are just searching for existing nodes
using the `WHERE` clause and accessing them using variables `p1` and `p2`.

### Retrieving relationship types

The built-in function `type()` can be used to return the type of a relationship:

```cypher
CREATE (p1:Person {name: 'Harry'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
CREATE (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO {weddingDate: '27-06-2019'}]->(p2)
RETURN type(r);
```

### Querying using relationships

You can query the database using relationship types. The following query will
return nodes connected with the relationship of the following type:

```cypher
MATCH (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```

### Relationship properties

Just like with properties on nodes, the same rules apply when creating or
matching a relationship. You can add properties to relationships at the time of
creation:

```cypher
CREATE (p1:Person {name: 'Harry'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
CREATE (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO {weddingDate: '27-06-2019'}]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```

You can also specify them in the `MATCH` clause:

```cypher
MATCH (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO {weddingDate: '27-06-2019'}]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/querying/create-graph-objects.mdx, after:

---
title: Create graph objects
description: Master the process of creating graph objects in Memgraph. Detailed documentation designed to aid in your graph use case. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Create graph objects

For creating graph objects, you can use the following clauses.

- `CREATE`, for creating new nodes and relationships.
- `SET`, for adding new or updating existing labels and properties.

You can still use the `RETURN` clause to produce results after writing, but it
is not mandatory.

Details on which kind of data can be stored in Memgraph can be found in the
[Storage](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage) chapter.

<Callout type="info">

Indexing can increase performance when executing queries. Please take a look at
our [documentation on indexing](/fundamentals/indexes) for
more details.

</Callout>

## CREATE

This clause is used to add new nodes and relationships to the database. The creation is
done by providing a pattern, similarly to `MATCH` clause.

For example, use this query to create two new nodes connected with a new relationship.

```cypher
CREATE (node1)-[:RELATIONSHIP_TYPE]->(node2);
```

Labels and properties can be set during creation using the same syntax as in
`MATCH` patterns. For example, creating a node with a label and a property:

```cypher
CREATE (node:Label {property: 'my property value'});
```

Additional information on `CREATE` is available [here](/querying/clauses/create).

## WITH

The write part of the query cannot be simply followed by another read part. To
combine them, the `WITH` clause must be used. The names this clause establishes
are transferred from one part to another.

For example, creating a node and finding all nodes with the same property.

```cypher
CREATE (node {property: 42}) WITH node.property AS propValue
MATCH (n {property: propValue}) RETURN n;
```

Note that the `node` is not visible after `WITH`, since only `node.property` was
carried over.

This clause behaves very much like `RETURN`, so you should refer to features of
`RETURN`.

## MERGE

The `MERGE` clause is used to ensure that a pattern you are looking for exists
in the database. This means that it will be created if the pattern is not found.
In a way, this clause is like a combination of `MATCH` and `CREATE`.

For example, ensure that a person has at least one friend:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Person) MERGE (n)-[:FRIENDS_WITH]->(m);
```

The clause also provides additional features for updating the values depending
on whether the pattern was created or matched. This is achieved with `ON CREATE`
and `ON MATCH` sub clauses.

For example, set different properties depending on what `MERGE` did:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Person) MERGE (n)-[:FRIENDS_WITH]->(m)
ON CREATE SET m.prop = "created" ON MATCH SET m.prop = "existed";
```

For more details, check out [this guide](/querying/clauses/merge).

## Import existing data from CSV

Using CSV files is just one of the ways to [import your
data](/data-migration) into Memgraph. The `LOAD CSV` clause enables
you to [load and use data](/data-migration/csv) from a
CSV file. Memgraph supports the Excel CSV dialect, as it's the most commonly
used one. For the syntax of the clause, please check the [LOAD
CSV](/data-migration/csv) page in the Cypher manual.

## Relationships

**Relationships** (or edges) are the **lines that connect nodes** to each other
and represent a defined connection between them. Every relationship has a source
node and a target node that represent in which direction the relationship works.
If this direction is important, the relationship is considered directed,
otherwise, it's undirected.

Relationships can also store data in the form of **properties**, just as nodes.
In most cases, relationships store quantitative properties such as weight,
costs, distances, ratings, etc.

![](/pages/querying/connecting-nodes/connecting-nodes.png)

In our example, the relationship between two nodes labeled `Person` could be of
the type `MARRIED_TO`. The relationship between `Person` and `City` is
represented by the type `LIVES_IN`.

The relationship of the type `MARRIED_TO` has the property `weddingDate`, which
represents the date when the marriage was formed. Relationships of the type
`LIVES_IN` have the property `durationInYears` which denotes how long a person
has lived in the specified location.

### Creating relationships

To create a relationship between two nodes, we need to specify which nodes
either by creating them or filtering them with the `WHERE` clause:

```cypher
CREATE (p1:Person {name: 'Harry'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
CREATE (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```

If the nodes already existed, the query would look like this:

```cypher
MATCH (p1:Person),(p2:Person)
WHERE p1.name = 'Harry' AND p2.name = 'Anna'
CREATE (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```

Instead of using the `CREATE` clause, you are just searching for existing nodes
using the `WHERE` clause and accessing them using variables `p1` and `p2`.

### Retrieving relationship types

The built-in function `type()` can be used to return the type of a relationship:

```cypher
CREATE (p1:Person {name: 'Harry'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
CREATE (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO {weddingDate: '27-06-2019'}]->(p2)
RETURN type(r);
```

### Querying using relationships

You can query the database using relationship types. The following query will
return nodes connected with the relationship of the following type:

```cypher
MATCH (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```

### Relationship properties

Just like with properties on nodes, the same rules apply when creating or
matching a relationship. You can add properties to relationships at the time of
creation:

```cypher
CREATE (p1:Person {name: 'Harry'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
CREATE (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO {weddingDate: '27-06-2019'}]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```

You can also specify them in the `MATCH` clause:

```cypher
MATCH (p1)-[r:MARRIED_TO {weddingDate: '27-06-2019'}]->(p2)
RETURN p1, r, p2;
```
