pages/querying/exploring-datasets.md, before:

# Exploring datasets with graph analytics

The tutorials that focus on exploring datasets want to showcase how to use
Memgraph on that particular dataset using Cypher queries. We encourage all
Memgraph users to go through at least one of the tutorials to get familiar with
Memgraph.

You can explore the datasets in two ways. If you just want to take a better look
at the data and the data model, and try out a few queries, open [Memgraph
Playground](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandboxes/) and continue with the
tutorials there. Note that you will not be able to execute `write` operations.

On the other hand, if you would like to add changes to the dataset, download the
[Memgraph Platform](https://memgraph.com/download#memgraph-platform). Once you
have it up and running, open Memgraph Lab web application within the browser on
[`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000) and navigate to the `Datasets` in the
sidebar. From there, choose the dataset that seems interesting to you and
continue with the tutorial. 

You can also run an instance in [Memgraph
Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud/). Once you [sign
up](https://cloud.memgraph.com/), create a new project. From the project you can
connect to Memgraph Lab web application and navigate to the `Datasets` in the
sidebar to choose the preferred dataset.

So far we have covered the following topics with basic tutorials:

- **[Analyzing TED Talks](/querying/exploring-datasets/analyzing-ted-talks)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/ted-talks)
- **[Backpacking Through Europe](/querying/exploring-datasets/backpacking-through-europe)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/europe-backpacking)
- **[Exploring the European Road
  Network](/querying/exploring-datasets/exploring-the-european-road-network)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/europe-roads)
- **[Football Transfers](/querying/exploring-datasets/football-transfers)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/football-transfers)
- **[Game of Thrones deaths](/querying/exploring-datasets/got-deaths)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/game-of-thrones-deaths)
- **[Graphing the Premier League](/querying/exploring-datasets/graphing-the-premier-league)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/football-premier-league)
- **[Marvel Comic Universe Social Network](/querying/exploring-datasets/marvel-universe)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/marvel-comics)
- **[Movie Recommendation System](/querying/exploring-datasets/movie-recommendation)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/movielens)

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/querying/exploring-datasets.md, after:

---
title: Exploring datasets with graph analytics
description: Traverse larger datasets with ease with Memgraph's data exploration capabilities. Detailing tutorials and documentation, get started with your Memgraph exploration now.
---

# Exploring datasets with graph analytics

The tutorials that focus on exploring datasets want to showcase how to use
Memgraph on that particular dataset using Cypher queries. We encourage all
Memgraph users to go through at least one of the tutorials to get familiar with
Memgraph.

You can explore the datasets in two ways. If you just want to take a better look
at the data and the data model, and try out a few queries, open [Memgraph
Playground](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandboxes/) and continue with the
tutorials there. Note that you will not be able to execute `write` operations.

On the other hand, if you would like to add changes to the dataset, download the
[Memgraph Platform](https://memgraph.com/download#memgraph-platform). Once you
have it up and running, open Memgraph Lab web application within the browser on
[`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000) and navigate to the `Datasets` in the
sidebar. From there, choose the dataset that seems interesting to you and
continue with the tutorial. 

You can also run an instance in [Memgraph
Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud/). Once you [sign
up](https://cloud.memgraph.com/), create a new project. From the project you can
connect to Memgraph Lab web application and navigate to the `Datasets` in the
sidebar to choose the preferred dataset.

So far we have covered the following topics with basic tutorials:

- **[Analyzing TED Talks](/querying/exploring-datasets/analyzing-ted-talks)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/ted-talks)
- **[Backpacking Through Europe](/querying/exploring-datasets/backpacking-through-europe)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/europe-backpacking)
- **[Exploring the European Road
  Network](/querying/exploring-datasets/exploring-the-european-road-network)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/europe-roads)
- **[Football Transfers](/querying/exploring-datasets/football-transfers)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/football-transfers)
- **[Game of Thrones deaths](/querying/exploring-datasets/got-deaths)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/game-of-thrones-deaths)
- **[Graphing the Premier League](/querying/exploring-datasets/graphing-the-premier-league)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/football-premier-league)
- **[Marvel Comic Universe Social Network](/querying/exploring-datasets/marvel-universe)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/marvel-comics)
- **[Movie Recommendation System](/querying/exploring-datasets/movie-recommendation)** - [Try it on
  Playground!](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/movielens)
