pages/querying/schema.mdx, before:

---
title: Schema
description: Master your graph database structure by leveraging the schema procedures, which offer in-depth analysis of node and relationship attributes, facilitating advanced database management and query optimization.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Schema

Some queries are designed to retrieve information about the structure of the data within the database, for example, node labels and properties associated, as well as relationship types and properties.

## Schema-related queries

To use schema-associated queries, start Memgraph with the `--storage-enable-schema-metadata` [configuration flag](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage) set to `True`. The flag facilitates the utilization of a specialized cache designed to store specific metadata related to the database.   

### Information about node labels

The `SHOW NODE_LABELS INFO;` query provides a list of node labels that currently exist in the database or have existed at some point.

If the database contains the following data:

```cypher
CREATE (:Dog {name: "Rex", age: 5})-[l:LOVES {how_much: "very"}]->(:Human:Owner {name: "Carl", age: 90});
```

The `SHOW NODE_LABELS INFO;` will return all the labels:

```cypher
SHOW NODE_LABELS INFO;
```

Result:

```plaintext
+-------------+
| node labels |
+-------------+
| "Owner"     |
| "Human"     |
| "Dog"       |
+-------------+
```

### Information about relationship types

The `SHOW EDGE_TYPES INFO;` query provides a list of relationship types that currently exist in the database or have existed at some point.

If the database contains the following data:

```cypher
CREATE (:Dog {name: "Rex", age: 5})-[l:LOVES {how_much: "very"}]->(:Human:Owner {name: "Carl", age: 90});
```

The `SHOW EDGE_TYPES INFO;` will return all the types:

```cypher
SHOW EDGE_TYPES INFO;
```
Result:

```plaintext
+------------+
| edge types |
+------------+
| "LOVES"    |
+------------+
```

## Schema-related procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute these procedures on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph using the `project` function](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### node_type_properties()

The `schema.node_type_properties()` procedure returns schema information about nodes and their properties in the graph.

{<h3> Output: </h3>}

- `nodeType: string` ➡ Concatenated node labels separated by a `:`.
- `nodeLabels: List[string]` ➡ A list of node labels.
- `mandatory: boolean` ➡  Returns `True` if every node with a given node type (defined by nodeType or nodeLabels) possesses the listed property (propertyName), and `False` otherwise.
- `propertyName: string` ➡  Property name.
- `propertyTypes: string` ➡ Property type.

{<h3> Usage: </h3>}

To get the information about nodes and properties, run the following query:

```cypher
CALL schema.node_type_properties()
YIELD nodeType, nodeLabels, mandatory, propertyName, propertyTypes;
```

### rel_type_properties()

This `schema.rel_type_properties()` procedure returns schema information about relationships and their properties in the graph.

{<h3> Output: </h3>}

- `relType: string` ➡ The type of the relationship.
- `mandatory: boolean` ➡ Returns `True` if every relationship with a given relationship type (defined by relType) possesses the listed property (propertyName), and `False` otherwise.
- `propertyName: string` ➡ Property name.
- `propertyTypes: string` ➡ Property type.

{<h3> Usage: </h3>}


To get the information about relationships and properties, run the following query:

```cypher
CALL schema.rel_type_properties()
YIELD relType, mandatory, propertyName, propertyTypes;
```

### assert()

The `schema.assert()` is used to ensure indices and constraints exist in Memgraph.

{<h3> Input: </h3>}

- `indices_map: (mgp.Map, required)`: Requires a map of key-value pairs where
  the key is a string representing a label and the value is a list containing
  properties as strings. If the list of properties is empty, an index will be
  created only on the label. If the list is not empty, indexes on the properties
  belonging to that label will be created. To create indexes on both the label
  and properties, add an empty string to the list of properties, for example,
  `["", "prop1", "prop2", ...]`.
- `unique_constraints: (mgp.Map, required)`: Requires a map of key-value pairs
  where the key is a string representing a label and the value is a list of
  lists containing properties as strings. List of lists is required since unique
  constraints can be created on a combination of multiple properties.
- `existence_constraints: (mgp.Map, optional)`: Requires a map of key-value
  pairs where the key is a string representing a label and the value is a list
  containing properties as strings. For each property, one existence constraint
  is created.
- `drop_existing: (bool, optional, default=true)`: If true, all existing indices
  and constraints will be dropped. If the user asserts existing indexes or constraints, they won't be dropped and re-created.

{<h3> Output: </h3>}

- `action: string` - The modification made to an index or a constraint.
- `label: string` - Label used for modifying index or constraint.
- `key: string` - Properties used for modifying index or constraint. When a
  label index is modified, an empty string is returned. When a unique constraint
  is modified, where key ia a list of properties a stringified list is returned.
- `keys: List[string]` - List of properties used to modify indexes or constraints.
- `unique: bool` - When `true` the record referres to unique constraint, when
  `false` it reffers to existence constraint and indices.

{<h3> Usage: </h3>}

Create initial indices and constraints in the database, using the following queries:

```
CREATE INDEX ON :Entity;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (p:Person) ASSERT EXISTS (p.address);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (p:Person) ASSERT p.id IS UNIQUE;
```

The following query will modify indexes and constraints by creating an index on
the `:Person` label, and a label-property index on `:Person(id)` property. Also,
a unique constraints will be created on `(Person.name, Person.surname)` and
`(Person.id)`. The index on the `:Entity` label will be dropped along with
the existence constraint on `:Person(id)` property.

```cypher
CALL schema.assert({Person: ["", "id"]}, {Person: [["name", "surname"], ["id"]]}, {}, true) 
YIELD action, key, keys, label, unique
RETURN action, key, keys, label, unique;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| action     | key               | keys                | label       | unique |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Created"  | ""                | []                  | "Person"    | false  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Created"  | "id"              | ["id"]              | "Person"    | false  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Dropped"  | ""                | []                  | "Entity"    | false  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Dropped"  | "address"         | ["address"]         | "Person"    | false  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Created"  | "[name, surname]" | ["name", "surname"] | "Person"    | true   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Kept"     | "id"              | ["id"]              | "Person"    | true   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

#### Delete all node indexes 

The `assert()` procedure can be used to delete all indexes and constraints. By
providing empty `indices_map`, `unique_constraints` and `existence_constraints` as
well as `drop_existing` set to `true`, ensure that there are no indexes or
constraints in the database. Here is the query for deleting all indexes and constraints:

```cypher
CALL schema.assert({}, {}, {}, true) 
YIELD action, key, keys, label, unique
RETURN action, key, keys, label, unique;
```

### Example

Create a graph using the following query:

```cypher
CREATE (:Dog {name: "Rex", age: 5})-[l:LOVES {how_much: "very"}]->(:Human:Owner {name: "Carl", age: 90})
CREATE (:Dog)-[r:RUNS_AND_PLAYS_IN {speed: 100, duration: "5 hours" }]->(:Park)
CREATE (:Bird)-[f:FLIES_TO]->(:Sky);
```

Call the procedure to get information about the nodes:

```cypher
CALL schema.node_type_properties()
YIELD nodeType, nodeLabels, mandatory, propertyName, propertyTypes;
```

Result:

```plaintext
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
| nodeType           | nodeLabels         | mandatory          | propertyName       | propertyTypes      |
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
| ":`Sky`"           | ["Sky"]            | false              | ""                 | ""                 |
| ":`Park`"          | ["Park"]           | false              | ""                 | ""                 |
| ":`Human`:`Owner`" | ["Human", "Owner"] | false              | "age"              | "Int"              |
| ":`Human`:`Owner`" | ["Human", "Owner"] | false              | "name"             | "String"           |
| ":`Bird`"          | ["Bird"]           | false              | ""                 | ""                 |
| ":`Dog`"           | ["Dog"]            | false              | "age"              | "Int"              |
| ":`Dog`"           | ["Dog"]            | false              | "name"             | "String"           |
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
```

Call the procedure to get information about the relationships:

```cypher
CALL schema.rel_type_properties()
YIELD relType, mandatory, propertyName, propertyTypes;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| relType                | mandatory              | propertyName           | propertyTypes          |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| ":`FLIES_TO`"          | false                  | ""                     | ""                     |
| ":`RUNS_AND_PLAYS_IN`" | false                  | "duration"             | "String"               |
| ":`RUNS_AND_PLAYS_IN`" | false                  | "speed"                | "Int"                  |
| ":`LOVES`"             | true                   | "how_much"             | "String"               |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
```

Commit message:

Add info on edge-type indices and the schema.assert procedure (#694)
* Add info on edge-type indices.

* Update pages/querying/schema.mdx

Co-authored-by: Matea Pesic <80577904+matea16@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Matea Pesic <80577904+matea16@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/querying/schema.mdx, after:

---
title: Schema
description: Master your graph database structure by leveraging the schema procedures, which offer in-depth analysis of node and relationship attributes, facilitating advanced database management and query optimization.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Schema

Some queries are designed to retrieve information about the structure of the data within the database, for example, node labels and properties associated, as well as relationship types and properties.

## Schema-related queries

To use schema-associated queries, start Memgraph with the `--storage-enable-schema-metadata` [configuration flag](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage) set to `True`. The flag facilitates the utilization of a specialized cache designed to store specific metadata related to the database.   

### Information about node labels

The `SHOW NODE_LABELS INFO;` query provides a list of node labels that currently exist in the database or have existed at some point.

If the database contains the following data:

```cypher
CREATE (:Dog {name: "Rex", age: 5})-[l:LOVES {how_much: "very"}]->(:Human:Owner {name: "Carl", age: 90});
```

The `SHOW NODE_LABELS INFO;` will return all the labels:

```cypher
SHOW NODE_LABELS INFO;
```

Result:

```plaintext
+-------------+
| node labels |
+-------------+
| "Owner"     |
| "Human"     |
| "Dog"       |
+-------------+
```

### Information about relationship types

The `SHOW EDGE_TYPES INFO;` query provides a list of relationship types that currently exist in the database or have existed at some point.

If the database contains the following data:

```cypher
CREATE (:Dog {name: "Rex", age: 5})-[l:LOVES {how_much: "very"}]->(:Human:Owner {name: "Carl", age: 90});
```

The `SHOW EDGE_TYPES INFO;` will return all the types:

```cypher
SHOW EDGE_TYPES INFO;
```
Result:

```plaintext
+------------+
| edge types |
+------------+
| "LOVES"    |
+------------+
```

## Schema-related procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute these procedures on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph using the `project` function](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### node_type_properties()

The `schema.node_type_properties()` procedure returns schema information about nodes and their properties in the graph.

{<h3> Output: </h3>}

- `nodeType: string` ➡ Concatenated node labels separated by a `:`.
- `nodeLabels: List[string]` ➡ A list of node labels.
- `mandatory: boolean` ➡  Returns `True` if every node with a given node type (defined by nodeType or nodeLabels) possesses the listed property (propertyName), and `False` otherwise.
- `propertyName: string` ➡  Property name.
- `propertyTypes: string` ➡ Property type.

{<h3> Usage: </h3>}

To get the information about nodes and properties, run the following query:

```cypher
CALL schema.node_type_properties()
YIELD nodeType, nodeLabels, mandatory, propertyName, propertyTypes;
```

### rel_type_properties()

This `schema.rel_type_properties()` procedure returns schema information about relationships and their properties in the graph.

{<h3> Output: </h3>}

- `relType: string` ➡ The type of the relationship.
- `mandatory: boolean` ➡ Returns `True` if every relationship with a given relationship type (defined by relType) possesses the listed property (propertyName), and `False` otherwise.
- `propertyName: string` ➡ Property name.
- `propertyTypes: string` ➡ Property type.

{<h3> Usage: </h3>}


To get the information about relationships and properties, run the following query:

```cypher
CALL schema.rel_type_properties()
YIELD relType, mandatory, propertyName, propertyTypes;
```

### assert()

The `schema.assert()` is used to ensure indices and constraints exist in Memgraph.

{<h3> Input: </h3>}

- `indices_map: (mgp.Map, required)`: Requires a map of key-value pairs where
  the key is a string representing a label and the value is a list containing
  properties as strings. If the list of properties is empty, an index will be
  created only on the label. If the list is not empty, indexes on the properties
  belonging to that label will be created. To create indexes on both the label
  and properties, add an empty string to the list of properties, for example,
  `["", "prop1", "prop2", ...]`.
- `unique_constraints: (mgp.Map, required)`: Requires a map of key-value pairs
  where the key is a string representing a label and the value is a list of
  lists containing properties as strings. List of lists is required since unique
  constraints can be created on a combination of multiple properties.
- `existence_constraints: (mgp.Map, optional)`: Requires a map of key-value
  pairs where the key is a string representing a label and the value is a list
  containing properties as strings. For each property, one existence constraint
  is created.
- `drop_existing: (bool, optional, default=true)`: If true, all existing indices
  and constraints will be dropped. If the user asserts existing indexes or constraints, they won't be dropped and re-created.

{<h3> Output: </h3>}

- `action: string` - The modification made to an index or a constraint.
- `label: string` - Label used for modifying index or constraint.
- `key: string` - Properties used for modifying index or constraint. When a
  label index is modified, an empty string is returned. When a unique constraint
  is modified, where key ia a list of properties a stringified list is returned.
- `keys: List[string]` - List of properties used to modify indexes or constraints.
- `unique: bool` - When `true` the record referres to unique constraint, when
  `false` it reffers to existence constraint and indices.

{<h3> Usage: </h3>}

Create initial indices and constraints in the database, using the following queries:

```
CREATE INDEX ON :Entity;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (p:Person) ASSERT EXISTS (p.address);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (p:Person) ASSERT p.id IS UNIQUE;
```

The following query will modify indexes and constraints by creating an index on
the `:Person` label, and a label-property index on `:Person(id)` property. Also,
a unique constraints will be created on `(Person.name, Person.surname)` and
`(Person.id)`. The index on the `:Entity` label will be dropped along with
the existence constraint on `:Person(id)` property.

```cypher
CALL schema.assert({Person: ["", "id"]}, {Person: [["name", "surname"], ["id"]]}, {}, true) 
YIELD action, key, keys, label, unique
RETURN action, key, keys, label, unique;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| action     | key               | keys                | label       | unique |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Created"  | ""                | []                  | "Person"    | false  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Created"  | "id"              | ["id"]              | "Person"    | false  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Dropped"  | ""                | []                  | "Entity"    | false  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Dropped"  | "address"         | ["address"]         | "Person"    | false  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Created"  | "[name, surname]" | ["name", "surname"] | "Person"    | true   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| "Kept"     | "id"              | ["id"]              | "Person"    | true   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

#### Delete all node indexes 

The `assert()` procedure can be used to delete all indexes and constraints, **except for edge-type indices**. By
providing empty `indices_map`, `unique_constraints` and `existence_constraints` as
well as `drop_existing` set to `true`, ensure that there are no indexes or
constraints in the database. Here is the query for deleting all indexes and constraints:

```cypher
CALL schema.assert({}, {}, {}, true) 
YIELD action, key, keys, label, unique
RETURN action, key, keys, label, unique;
```

### Example

Create a graph using the following query:

```cypher
CREATE (:Dog {name: "Rex", age: 5})-[l:LOVES {how_much: "very"}]->(:Human:Owner {name: "Carl", age: 90})
CREATE (:Dog)-[r:RUNS_AND_PLAYS_IN {speed: 100, duration: "5 hours" }]->(:Park)
CREATE (:Bird)-[f:FLIES_TO]->(:Sky);
```

Call the procedure to get information about the nodes:

```cypher
CALL schema.node_type_properties()
YIELD nodeType, nodeLabels, mandatory, propertyName, propertyTypes;
```

Result:

```plaintext
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
| nodeType           | nodeLabels         | mandatory          | propertyName       | propertyTypes      |
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
| ":`Sky`"           | ["Sky"]            | false              | ""                 | ""                 |
| ":`Park`"          | ["Park"]           | false              | ""                 | ""                 |
| ":`Human`:`Owner`" | ["Human", "Owner"] | false              | "age"              | "Int"              |
| ":`Human`:`Owner`" | ["Human", "Owner"] | false              | "name"             | "String"           |
| ":`Bird`"          | ["Bird"]           | false              | ""                 | ""                 |
| ":`Dog`"           | ["Dog"]            | false              | "age"              | "Int"              |
| ":`Dog`"           | ["Dog"]            | false              | "name"             | "String"           |
+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
```

Call the procedure to get information about the relationships:

```cypher
CALL schema.rel_type_properties()
YIELD relType, mandatory, propertyName, propertyTypes;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| relType                | mandatory              | propertyName           | propertyTypes          |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
| ":`FLIES_TO`"          | false                  | ""                     | ""                     |
| ":`RUNS_AND_PLAYS_IN`" | false                  | "duration"             | "String"               |
| ":`RUNS_AND_PLAYS_IN`" | false                  | "speed"                | "Int"                  |
| ":`LOVES`"             | true                   | "how_much"             | "String"               |
+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
```
