pages/querying/text-search.mdx, before:

---
title: Text search
description: Learn how to use text search and manage text indices in Memgraph.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Text search

<Callout type="warning">

Text search is an [experimental
feature](/database-management/experimental-features) introduced in Memgraph
2.15.1. To use it, start Memgraph with the `--experimental-enabled=text-search`
flag.

</Callout>

Text search allows you to look up nodes with properties that contain specific content.
For a node to be searchable, you first need to create a text index that applies
to it.


Text indices and search are powered by the
[Tantivy](https://github.com/quickwit-oss/tantivy) full-text search engine.

## Create text indices

Text indices are created with the `CREATE TEXT INDEX` command. You need to give
a name to the new index and specify which labels it should apply to.

This statement creates a text index named `complianceDocuments` for nodes with
the `Report` label:

```cypher
CREATE TEXT INDEX complianceDocuments ON :Report;
```

If you attempt to create an index with an existing name, the statement will fail.

### What is indexed

For any given node, if a text index applies to it, all its properties with text-indexable types (`String`, `Integer`, `Float`, or `Boolean`) are stored.

## Show text indices

To list all text indices in Memgraph, use the `SHOW INDEX INFO`
[statement](/fundamentals/indexes#show-created-indexes).

## Query text indices

Querying text indices is done through query procedures.

<Callout type="info">

Unlike other index types, text indices are not used by the query planner.

</Callout>


### Search in specific properties

The `text_search.search` procedure finds text-indexed nodes matching the given query.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Input: </h3>}

- `index_name: String` - The text index to be searched.
- `search_query: String` - The query applied to the text-indexed nodes.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Output: </h3>}

- `node: Node` - A node in `index_name` matching the given `search_query`.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h3>}

The syntax for the `search_query` parameter is available
[here](https://docs.rs/tantivy/latest/tantivy/query/struct.QueryParser.html).
If the query contains property names, attach the `data.` prefix to them.

The following query searches the `complianceDocuments` index for nodes with the
value of `title` property containing `Rules2024`:

```cypher
CALL text_search.search("complianceDocuments", "data.title:Rules2024")
YIELD node
RETURN node;
```

### Search over all indexed properties

The `text_search.search_all` procedure looks for text-indexed nodes where at
least one property value matches the given query.

Unlike `text_search.search`, this procedure searches over all properties, and
there is no need to specify property names in the query.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Input: </h3>}

- `index_name: String` - The text index to be searched.
- `search_query: String` - The query applied to the text-indexed nodes.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Output: </h3>}

- `node: Node` - A node in `index_name` matching the given `search_query`.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h3>}

The following query searches the `complianceDocuments` index for nodes where at
least one property value contains `Rules2024`:

```cypher
CALL text_search.search_all("complianceDocuments", "Rules2024")
YIELD node
RETURN node;
```

### Regex search

The `text_search.regex_search` procedure looks for text-indexed nodes where at
least one property value matches the given regular expression (regex).

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Input: </h3>}

- `index_name: String` - The text index to be searched.
- `search_query: String` - The regex applied to the text-indexed nodes.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Output: </h3>}

- `node: Node` - A node in `index_name` matching the given `search_query`.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h3>}

Regex searches apply to all properties; do not include property names in the search query.

The following query searches the `complianceDocuments` index for nodes where at
least one property value satisfies the `wor.*s` regex, e.g. "works" and "words":

```cypher
CALL text_search.regex_search("complianceDocuments", "wor.*s")
YIELD node
RETURN node;
```

### Aggregations

Aggregations allow you to perform calculations on text search results. By using
them, you can efficiently summarize the results, calculate averages or totals,
identify min/max values, and count indexed nodes that meet specific criteria.

The `text_search.aggregate` procedure lets you define an aggregation and apply
it to the results of a search query.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Input: </h3>}

- `index_name: String` - The text index to be searched.
- `search_query: String` - The query applied to the text-indexed nodes.
- `aggregation_query: String` - The aggregation (JSON-formatted) to be applied
    to the output of `search_query`.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Output: </h3>}

- `aggregation: String` - JSON-formatted string with the output of aggregation.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h3>}

Aggregation queries and results are strings with Elasticsearch-compatible JSON
format, where `"field"` corresponds to node properties. If the search or
aggregation queries contain property names, attach the `data.` prefix to them.

The following query counts all nodes in the `complianceDocuments` index:

```cypher
CALL text_search.aggregate(
    "complianceDocuments",
    "data.title:Rules2024",
    '{"count": {"value_count": {"field": "metadata.gid"}}}'
)
YIELD aggregation
RETURN aggregation;
```

## Drop text indices

Text indices are dropped with the `DROP TEXT INDEX` command. You need to give
the name of the index to be deleted.

This statement drops the text index named `complianceDocuments`:

```cypher
DROP TEXT INDEX complianceDocuments;
```

If one attempts to delete an index with the same name twice, the statement will
fail. 

## Compatibility

Being an experimental feature, text search only supports some usage modalities
that are available in Memgraph. Refer to the table below for an overview:

| Feature                 | Support   |
|-------------------------|-----------|
| Multitenancy            | yes       |
| Durability              | yes       |
| Storage modes           | yes (all) |
| Replication             | no        |
| Concurrent transactions | no        |

<Callout type="warning">

Disclaimer: For now, text search is not guaranteed to work correctly in use
cases that involve concurrent transactions and replication.

</Callout>

Commit message:

Add warning for experimental features

pages/querying/text-search.mdx, after:

---
title: Text search
description: Learn how to use text search and manage text indices in Memgraph.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Text search

<Callout type="warning">

Text search is an [experimental
feature](/database-management/experimental-features) introduced in Memgraph
2.15.1. To use it, start Memgraph with the `--experimental-enabled=text-search`
flag.

Make sure to start a fresh instance and then load your data. Snapshots and WALs
created with version `vX.Y.Z` without the experimental flag are currently
incompatible with the same version `vX.Y.Z` when the experimental flag is
enabled.
</Callout>

Text search allows you to look up nodes with properties that contain specific content.
For a node to be searchable, you first need to create a text index that applies
to it.


Text indices and search are powered by the
[Tantivy](https://github.com/quickwit-oss/tantivy) full-text search engine.

## Create text indices

Text indices are created with the `CREATE TEXT INDEX` command. You need to give
a name to the new index and specify which labels it should apply to.

This statement creates a text index named `complianceDocuments` for nodes with
the `Report` label:

```cypher
CREATE TEXT INDEX complianceDocuments ON :Report;
```

If you attempt to create an index with an existing name, the statement will fail.

### What is indexed

For any given node, if a text index applies to it, all its properties with text-indexable types (`String`, `Integer`, `Float`, or `Boolean`) are stored.

## Show text indices

To list all text indices in Memgraph, use the `SHOW INDEX INFO`
[statement](/fundamentals/indexes#show-created-indexes).

## Query text indices

Querying text indices is done through query procedures.

<Callout type="info">

Unlike other index types, text indices are not used by the query planner.

</Callout>


### Search in specific properties

The `text_search.search` procedure finds text-indexed nodes matching the given query.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Input: </h3>}

- `index_name: String` - The text index to be searched.
- `search_query: String` - The query applied to the text-indexed nodes.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Output: </h3>}

- `node: Node` - A node in `index_name` matching the given `search_query`.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h3>}

The syntax for the `search_query` parameter is available
[here](https://docs.rs/tantivy/latest/tantivy/query/struct.QueryParser.html).
If the query contains property names, attach the `data.` prefix to them.

The following query searches the `complianceDocuments` index for nodes with the
value of `title` property containing `Rules2024`:

```cypher
CALL text_search.search("complianceDocuments", "data.title:Rules2024")
YIELD node
RETURN node;
```

### Search over all indexed properties

The `text_search.search_all` procedure looks for text-indexed nodes where at
least one property value matches the given query.

Unlike `text_search.search`, this procedure searches over all properties, and
there is no need to specify property names in the query.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Input: </h3>}

- `index_name: String` - The text index to be searched.
- `search_query: String` - The query applied to the text-indexed nodes.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Output: </h3>}

- `node: Node` - A node in `index_name` matching the given `search_query`.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h3>}

The following query searches the `complianceDocuments` index for nodes where at
least one property value contains `Rules2024`:

```cypher
CALL text_search.search_all("complianceDocuments", "Rules2024")
YIELD node
RETURN node;
```

### Regex search

The `text_search.regex_search` procedure looks for text-indexed nodes where at
least one property value matches the given regular expression (regex).

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Input: </h3>}

- `index_name: String` - The text index to be searched.
- `search_query: String` - The regex applied to the text-indexed nodes.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Output: </h3>}

- `node: Node` - A node in `index_name` matching the given `search_query`.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h3>}

Regex searches apply to all properties; do not include property names in the search query.

The following query searches the `complianceDocuments` index for nodes where at
least one property value satisfies the `wor.*s` regex, e.g. "works" and "words":

```cypher
CALL text_search.regex_search("complianceDocuments", "wor.*s")
YIELD node
RETURN node;
```

### Aggregations

Aggregations allow you to perform calculations on text search results. By using
them, you can efficiently summarize the results, calculate averages or totals,
identify min/max values, and count indexed nodes that meet specific criteria.

The `text_search.aggregate` procedure lets you define an aggregation and apply
it to the results of a search query.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Input: </h3>}

- `index_name: String` - The text index to be searched.
- `search_query: String` - The query applied to the text-indexed nodes.
- `aggregation_query: String` - The aggregation (JSON-formatted) to be applied
    to the output of `search_query`.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Output: </h3>}

- `aggregation: String` - JSON-formatted string with the output of aggregation.

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h3>}

Aggregation queries and results are strings with Elasticsearch-compatible JSON
format, where `"field"` corresponds to node properties. If the search or
aggregation queries contain property names, attach the `data.` prefix to them.

The following query counts all nodes in the `complianceDocuments` index:

```cypher
CALL text_search.aggregate(
    "complianceDocuments",
    "data.title:Rules2024",
    '{"count": {"value_count": {"field": "metadata.gid"}}}'
)
YIELD aggregation
RETURN aggregation;
```

## Drop text indices

Text indices are dropped with the `DROP TEXT INDEX` command. You need to give
the name of the index to be deleted.

This statement drops the text index named `complianceDocuments`:

```cypher
DROP TEXT INDEX complianceDocuments;
```

If one attempts to delete an index with the same name twice, the statement will
fail. 

## Compatibility

Being an experimental feature, text search only supports some usage modalities
that are available in Memgraph. Refer to the table below for an overview:

| Feature                 | Support   |
|-------------------------|-----------|
| Multitenancy            | yes       |
| Durability              | yes       |
| Storage modes           | yes (all) |
| Replication             | no        |
| Concurrent transactions | no        |

<Callout type="warning">

Disclaimer: For now, text search is not guaranteed to work correctly in use
cases that involve concurrent transactions and replication.

</Callout>
