pages/data-migration/cypherl.mdx, before:

---
title: Importing Cypher queries (CYPHERL format)
description: Navigate the essentials of working with Cypherl in Memgraph. Our documentation will get you covered even with the most complex project needs.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Importing Cypher queries (CYPHERL format)

If your data is in the form of Cypher queries (for example, `CREATE` and `MERGE`
clauses) within a **CYPHERL** file it can be imported via the visual interface
[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization) or [mgconsole](/getting-started/cli).

The benefit of importing data using the CYPHERL file is that you need only one
file to import both nodes and relationships. But it can be tricky to actually
[write the queries for creating nodes and relationships
yourself](/querying/create-graph-objects).

<Callout>

To speed up import time consider [creating indexes](/fundamentals/indexes)
on appropriate nodes or node properties.

Cypher queries can be imported concurrently, speeding up the import process.
Read more about [concurrent import](#concurrent-import).

If you are using on-disk storage mode consider using
[Edge import mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#import-data-using-cypher-queries).

</Callout>

## Importing via Memgraph Lab

Once your Memgraph instance is running and you've connected to it via Memgraph
Lab, go to the *Import & Export* section. To *Import Data* select the
CYPHERL file or drag and drop it into Memgraph Lab.

You can import up to 1 million nodes and relationships via Memgraph Lab using
the CYPHERL file.

![](/pages/data-migration/cypherl/import-lab.png)

## Importing via mgconsole

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>

  <Tab>

    If you installed and started Memgraph using **Docker**, follow these steps:

    1. Open a new terminal and check the Docker container ID by running `docker ps`.
    2. Run the following command

      ```
      docker exec -i CONTAINER_ID mgconsole < queries.cypherl
      ```

    For more information about `mgconsole` options run:

    ```console
    docker exec -i CONTAINER_ID mgconsole --help
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>

    Once Memgraph is running in **Linux**, Cypher queries are imported by running
    [mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) in a non-interactive mode and importing data
    saved in a CYPHERL file.

    You can import queries saved in e.g. `queries.cypherl` by issuing the following
    shell command:

    ```plaintext
    mgconsole < queries.cypherl
    ```

    For more information about `mgconsole` options run:

    ```console
    mgconsole --help
  ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Examples

Below, you can find two examples of how to import data within the `.cypherl` file
based on the complexity of your data:
  - [One type of nodes and relationships](#one-type-of-nodes-and-relationships)
  - [Multiple types of nodes and relationships](#multiple-types-of-nodes-and-relationships)

### One type of nodes and relationships

Let's import data from `queries.cypherl` file with the following content:

```plaintext
CREATE (:Person {id: "100", name: "Daniel", age: 30, city: "London"});
CREATE (:Person {id: "101", name: "Alex", age: 15, city: "Paris"});
CREATE (:Person {id: "102", name: "Sarah", age: 101, city: "London"});
CREATE (:Person {id: "103", name: "Mia", age: 25, city: "Zagreb"});
CREATE (:Person {id: "104", name: "Lucy", age: 21, city: "Paris"});
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "100" AND v.id = "102" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "100" AND v.id = "103" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "101" AND v.id = "104" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "101" AND v.id = "102" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "103" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "103" AND v.id = "101" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "104" AND v.id = "100" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
```

<Callout>

In a CYPHERL file, each Cypher query must be written in a new row.

</Callout>

The first five queries create nodes for people, and the rest of the queries create
relationships between these nodes.

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>

  <Tab>

    If you installed Memgraph using Docker, open a new terminal, position yourself
    in the directory where the CYPHERL file is located and run the following
    commands:

    1. Check the Docker container ID by running `docker ps`
    2. Run the following command

      ```
      docker exec -i CONTAINER_ID mgconsole < queries.cypherl
      ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>

    Running mgconsole in a non-interactive mode and importing data saved in a
    CYPHERL file:

    ```console
    mgconsole < queries.cypherl
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

This is how the graph should look like in Memgraph after the import:

![](/pages/data-migration/cypherl/cypherl_one_type_nodes_and_relationships.png)

### Multiple types of nodes and relationships

Let's import data from `queries.cypherl` file with the following content:

```plaintext
CREATE (p:Person {id: "100", name: "Daniel", age: 30, city: "London"});
CREATE (p:Person {id: "101", name: "Alex", age: 15, city: "Paris"});
CREATE (p:Person {id: "102", name: "Sarah", age: 17, city: "London"});
CREATE (p:Person {id: "103", name: "Mia", age: 25, city: "Zagreb"});
CREATE (p:Person {id: "104", name: "Lucy", age: 21, city: "Paris"});
CREATE (r:Restaurant {id: "200", name: "McDonalds", menu: "Fries BigMac McChicken Apple Pie"});
CREATE (r:Restaurant {id: "201", name: "KFC", menu: "Fried Chicken Fries Chicken Bucket"});
CREATE (r:Restaurant {id: "202", name: "Subway", menu: "Ham Sandwich Turkey Sandwich Foot-long"});
CREATE (r:Restaurant {id: "203", name: "Dominos", menu: "Pepperoni Pizza Double Dish Pizza Cheese filled Crust"});
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "100" AND v.id = "103" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2014"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "101" AND v.id = "104" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2001"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "100" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2005"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "103" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2017"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "103" AND v.id = "104" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2005"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "104" AND v.id = "102" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2021"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "100" AND v.id = "200" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: true}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "202" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: false}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "203" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: false}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "200" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: true}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "103" AND v.id = "201" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: true}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "104" AND v.id = "201" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: false}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "101" AND v.id = "200" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: true}]->(v);
```

The first five queries create nodes for people, and the following four queries
create nodes for restaurants. The rest of the queries are used to define
relationships between nodes. As said before, you can define different types of
nodes and relationships in one file.

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>

  <Tab>

    If you installed Memgraph using Docker, open a new terminal, position yourself
    in the directory where the CYPHERL file is located and run the following
    commands:

    1. Check the Docker container ID by running `docker ps`
    2. Run the following command

      ```
      docker exec -i CONTAINER_ID mgconsole < queries.cypherl
      ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>

    Running mgconsole in a non-interactive mode and importing data saved in a
    CYPHERL file:

    ```console
    mgconsole < queries.cypherl
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

This is how the graph should look like in Memgraph after the import:

![](/pages/data-migration/cypherl/cypherl_multiple_type_nodes_and_relationships.png)


## Concurrent import

If you are using a [client library](/client-libraries) to import data from your
CYPHERL file, you can leverage concurrent import to speed up the import process. 

Split a file into smaller chunks of nodes and relationships, which can be
imported concurrently. Here is the basic flow: 

1. Open and read the file with the Cypher queries.
2. Split the CYPHERL file into a list of nodes and relationships.
3. Split the list of nodes and relationships into smaller chunks.
4. Import node chunks concurrently.
5. Import relationship chunks concurrently.


For details on how to achieve this, please refer to the documentation of the
[client library](/client-libraries) you are using.

Commit message:

Add best practices for import page (#525)
* Add best practices for import

* Update the best-pratices import.

* review cypher queries section + restructure

* update storage modes

* Add GH code card

* update graph object to graph object property

* update code snippets

* update index info

* add the csv file import tool section

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>

* update based on review

* update guide

* Link to best practices

* add link to lab

* update admonition

* update admonitions

---------

Co-authored-by: Ante Javor <ante.javor@memgraph.io>
Co-authored-by: matea16 <mateapesic@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Matea Pesic <80577904+matea16@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/data-migration/cypherl.mdx, after:

---
title: Importing Cypher queries (CYPHERL format)
description: Navigate the essentials of working with Cypherl in Memgraph. Our documentation will get you covered even with the most complex project needs.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Importing Cypher queries (CYPHERL format)

If your data is in the form of Cypher queries (for example, `CREATE` and `MERGE`
clauses) within a **CYPHERL** file it can be imported via the visual interface
[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization) or [mgconsole](/getting-started/cli).

The benefit of importing data using the CYPHERL file is that you need only one
file to import both nodes and relationships. But it can be tricky to actually
[write the queries for creating nodes and relationships
yourself](/querying/create-graph-objects).
 
<Callout>
To speed up import time consider [creating indexes](/fundamentals/indexes) on
appropriate nodes or node properties. If you are using on-disk storage mode
consider using [Edge import
mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#import-data-using-cypher-queries).
  
Cypher queries can be imported concurrently, speeding up the import process.
Read more about [concurrent import](#concurrent-import). Learn more about the
shortest path to import data into Memgraph by reading [best practices for
import](/data-migration/best-practices). 
</Callout>

## Importing via Memgraph Lab

Once your Memgraph instance is running and you've connected to it via Memgraph
Lab, go to the *Import & Export* section. To *Import Data* select the
CYPHERL file or drag and drop it into Memgraph Lab.

You can import up to 1 million nodes and relationships via Memgraph Lab using
the CYPHERL file.

![](/pages/data-migration/cypherl/import-lab.png)

## Importing via mgconsole

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>

  <Tab>

    If you installed and started Memgraph using **Docker**, follow these steps:

    1. Open a new terminal and check the Docker container ID by running `docker ps`.
    2. Run the following command

      ```
      docker exec -i CONTAINER_ID mgconsole < queries.cypherl
      ```

    For more information about `mgconsole` options run:

    ```console
    docker exec -i CONTAINER_ID mgconsole --help
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>

    Once Memgraph is running in **Linux**, Cypher queries are imported by running
    [mgconsole](/getting-started/cli) in a non-interactive mode and importing data
    saved in a CYPHERL file.

    You can import queries saved in e.g. `queries.cypherl` by issuing the following
    shell command:

    ```plaintext
    mgconsole < queries.cypherl
    ```

    For more information about `mgconsole` options run:

    ```console
    mgconsole --help
  ```
    </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Examples

Below, you can find two examples of how to import data within the `.cypherl` file
based on the complexity of your data:
  - [One type of nodes and relationships](#one-type-of-nodes-and-relationships)
  - [Multiple types of nodes and relationships](#multiple-types-of-nodes-and-relationships)

### One type of nodes and relationships

Let's import data from `queries.cypherl` file with the following content:

```plaintext
CREATE (:Person {id: "100", name: "Daniel", age: 30, city: "London"});
CREATE (:Person {id: "101", name: "Alex", age: 15, city: "Paris"});
CREATE (:Person {id: "102", name: "Sarah", age: 101, city: "London"});
CREATE (:Person {id: "103", name: "Mia", age: 25, city: "Zagreb"});
CREATE (:Person {id: "104", name: "Lucy", age: 21, city: "Paris"});
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "100" AND v.id = "102" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "100" AND v.id = "103" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "101" AND v.id = "104" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "101" AND v.id = "102" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "103" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "103" AND v.id = "101" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "104" AND v.id = "100" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH]->(v);
```

<Callout>

In a CYPHERL file, each Cypher query must be written in a new row.

</Callout>

The first five queries create nodes for people, and the rest of the queries create
relationships between these nodes.

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>

  <Tab>

    If you installed Memgraph using Docker, open a new terminal, position yourself
    in the directory where the CYPHERL file is located and run the following
    commands:

    1. Check the Docker container ID by running `docker ps`
    2. Run the following command

      ```
      docker exec -i CONTAINER_ID mgconsole < queries.cypherl
      ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>

    Running mgconsole in a non-interactive mode and importing data saved in a
    CYPHERL file:

    ```console
    mgconsole < queries.cypherl
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

This is how the graph should look like in Memgraph after the import:

![](/pages/data-migration/cypherl/cypherl_one_type_nodes_and_relationships.png)

### Multiple types of nodes and relationships

Let's import data from `queries.cypherl` file with the following content:

```plaintext
CREATE (p:Person {id: "100", name: "Daniel", age: 30, city: "London"});
CREATE (p:Person {id: "101", name: "Alex", age: 15, city: "Paris"});
CREATE (p:Person {id: "102", name: "Sarah", age: 17, city: "London"});
CREATE (p:Person {id: "103", name: "Mia", age: 25, city: "Zagreb"});
CREATE (p:Person {id: "104", name: "Lucy", age: 21, city: "Paris"});
CREATE (r:Restaurant {id: "200", name: "McDonalds", menu: "Fries BigMac McChicken Apple Pie"});
CREATE (r:Restaurant {id: "201", name: "KFC", menu: "Fried Chicken Fries Chicken Bucket"});
CREATE (r:Restaurant {id: "202", name: "Subway", menu: "Ham Sandwich Turkey Sandwich Foot-long"});
CREATE (r:Restaurant {id: "203", name: "Dominos", menu: "Pepperoni Pizza Double Dish Pizza Cheese filled Crust"});
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "100" AND v.id = "103" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2014"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "101" AND v.id = "104" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2001"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "100" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2005"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "103" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2017"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "103" AND v.id = "104" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2005"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Person) WHERE u.id = "104" AND v.id = "102" CREATE (u)-[:IS_FRIENDS_WITH {met_in: "2021"}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "100" AND v.id = "200" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: true}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "202" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: false}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "203" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: false}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "102" AND v.id = "200" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: true}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "103" AND v.id = "201" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: true}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "104" AND v.id = "201" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: false}]->(v);
MATCH (u:Person), (v:Restaurant) WHERE u.id = "101" AND v.id = "200" CREATE (u)-[:ATE_AT {liked: true}]->(v);
```

The first five queries create nodes for people, and the following four queries
create nodes for restaurants. The rest of the queries are used to define
relationships between nodes. As said before, you can define different types of
nodes and relationships in one file.

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>

  <Tab>

    If you installed Memgraph using Docker, open a new terminal, position yourself
    in the directory where the CYPHERL file is located and run the following
    commands:

    1. Check the Docker container ID by running `docker ps`
    2. Run the following command

      ```
      docker exec -i CONTAINER_ID mgconsole < queries.cypherl
      ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>

    Running mgconsole in a non-interactive mode and importing data saved in a
    CYPHERL file:

    ```console
    mgconsole < queries.cypherl
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

This is how the graph should look like in Memgraph after the import:

![](/pages/data-migration/cypherl/cypherl_multiple_type_nodes_and_relationships.png)


## Concurrent import

If you are using a [client library](/client-libraries) to import data from your
CYPHERL file, you can leverage concurrent import to speed up the import process. 

Split a file into smaller chunks of nodes and relationships, which can be
imported concurrently. Here is the basic flow: 

1. Open and read the file with the Cypher queries.
2. Split the CYPHERL file into a list of nodes and relationships.
3. Split the list of nodes and relationships into smaller chunks.
4. Import node chunks concurrently.
5. Import relationship chunks concurrently.


For details on how to achieve this, please refer to the documentation of the
[client library](/client-libraries) you are using.
