pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j.mdx, before:

# Migrate from Neo4j to Memgraph

Memgraph is a native in-memory graph database specialized for real-time
use-cases such us streaming, analytical processing etc. It uses Cypher query
language and Bolt protocol. This means that you can use the same tools and
drivers that you are already using with Neo4j. Due to the ACID compliance, data
persistency and replication support in community version, Memgraph can be used
as main database for your applications, instead of Neo4j. 

This tutorial is also available as a video:

<br />

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LNHH1Od6ZqM"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="autoplay; encrypted-media"
  allowFullScreen
></iframe>

## Prerequisites

To follow this tutorial, you will need to have the following:

- Running Neo4j instance (with your data, or use the sample data provided)
- [Latest `memgraph/memgraph-platform` Docker image](https://memgraph.com/download)

## Data schema

One of the first steps to consider is how to migrate your data. If you have your
data in the form of [Cypher queries](/data-migration/cypherl) or
[CSV](/data-migration/csv) or [JSON](/data-migration/json) format, you can
import these formats into Memgraph. Keep in mind that for importing larger
datasets it is recommended to use CSV format or pure Cypher queries (Memgraph's
CYPHERL format), since they can be imported into Memgraph natively, faster than
JSON format.

This tutorial will go through exporting data from Neo4j into CSV files and
importing it into Memgraph using [LOAD CSV](/data-migration/csv)
query and Memgraph's user visual interface [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization).

The sample dataset consists of 3 different kinds of nodes (Employee, Order and
Product) connected with 3 types of relationships as described by the graph
schema below: 

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/shipping_schema.png)

To create this graph in your Neo4j instance run the following queries:

```cypher
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/orders.csv' AS column
MERGE (order:Order {orderID: column.OrderID})
    ON CREATE SET order.shipName = column.ShipName;

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/products.csv' AS column
MERGE (product:Product {productID: column.ProductID})
  ON CREATE SET product.productName = column.ProductName, product.unitPrice = toFloat(column.UnitPrice);

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/employees.csv' AS column
MERGE (e:Employee {employeeID:column.EmployeeID})
  ON CREATE SET e.firstName = column.FirstName, e.lastName = column.LastName, e.title = column.Title;

CREATE INDEX product_id FOR (p:Product) ON (p.productID);
CREATE INDEX product_name FOR (p:Product) ON (p.productName);
CREATE INDEX employee_id FOR (e:Employee) ON (e.employeeID);
CALL db.awaitIndexes();

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/orders.csv' AS column
MATCH (order:Order {orderID: column.OrderID})
MATCH (product:Product {productID: column.ProductID})
MERGE (order)-[op:CONTAINS]->(product)
  ON CREATE SET op.unitPrice = toFloat(column.UnitPrice), op.quantity = toFloat(column.Quantity);

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/orders.csv' AS column
MATCH (order:Order {orderID: column.OrderID})
MATCH (employee:Employee {employeeID: column.EmployeeID})
MERGE (employee)-[:SOLD]->(order);

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/employees.csv' AS column
MATCH (employee:Employee {employeeID: column.EmployeeID})
MATCH (manager:Employee {employeeID: column.ReportsTo})
MERGE (employee)-[:REPORTS_TO]->(manager);
```

If you are going to use different dataset to migrate, be aware of the
differences between Neo4j and [Memgraph data
types](/fundamentals/data-types) (for example, Memgraph doesn't support
`DateTime()` as there is no temporal type in Memgraph that supports timezones yet, 
but you can modify data to use `localDateTime()`).

## Exporting data from Neo4j

Download the CSV file
[shipping.csv](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/data-migration/csv-cypher/shipping.csv)
containing the data above if you don't want to go through the exporting process. 

To get your data out of Neo4j instance, use the Neo4j APOC export functionality.
To install APOC, select the project, then in the right-side menu select *Plugins
-> APOC* and press install.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/install_APOC.png)

Then enable export by setting the configuration flag `apoc.export.file.enabled`
to `true` in the `apoc.config` file located in the `config` directory. To open
the directory, select the active project, click on *...* -> *Open folder* ->
*Configuration*. 

Export the data into a CSV file using:

```cypher
CALL apoc.export.csv.all("shipping.csv", {})
```

Once exported, the file is located in Neo4j's *Import* folder. To open it,
select the active project, click on *...* -> *Open folder* -> *Import*.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/import_folder.png)

## Importing data into Memgraph

Now that the CSV file containing the needed data has been generated,  let's
import data into Memgraph. 

As the original location of file is quite cumbersome, relocate it somewhere
more accessible. 

### 1. Starting Memgraph with Docker

When working with Docker, the file needs to be transferred from your local
directory into the Docker container where Memgraph can access it.

This can be done by copying the file into your running instance. 

1. Run Memgraph with

    ```
    docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform
    ```

2. To copy the file inside the container, open a new terminal to find out the
    `CONTAINER ID` with `docker ps`, then run:

    ```
    docker cp /path_to_local_folder/shipping.csv <container_ID>:/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv
    ```

    If the container ID is `bed1e5c9192d` and the file is locally located at
    `C:/Data` the command would look like this:

    ```
    docker cp C:/Data/shipping.csv bed1:/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv
    ```

3. To check if the files are inside the container, first run: 

    ```
    docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID bash
    ```

4. List the files inside the `/usr/lib/memgraph`. 

    ```nocopy
    C:\Users\Vlasta>docker ps
    CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                        COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                                                                    NAMES
    bed1e5c9192d   memgraph/memgraph-platform   "/bin/sh -c '/usr/bi…"   2 minutes ago   Up 2 minutes   0.0.0.0:3000->3000/tcp, 0.0.0.0:7444->7444/tcp, 0.0.0.0:7687->7687/tcp   recursing_blackburn

    C:\Users\Vlasta>docker cp C:/Data/shipping.csv bed1:/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv

    C:\Users\Vlasta>docker exec -it bed1 bash
    root@bed1e5c9192d:/# ls /usr/lib/memgraph
    auth_module  memgraph  python_support  query_modules  shipping.csv
    root@bed1e5c9192d:/#
    ```

### 2. Gaining speed with indexes and analytical storage mode

Although the dataset imported in this tutorial is quite small, one day you might
want to import really big datasets with billions of nodes and relationships and
you will require all the extra speed you can get. 

To gain speed you can [create indexes](/fundamentals/indexes) on the
properties used to connect nodes with relationships which are the values in the
`_id` column in the CSV files, and in Memgraph they will be named `nodeID`.

**To create indexes, run: **

```cypher
CREATE INDEX ON :Employee(nodeID);
CREATE INDEX ON :Order(nodeID);
CREATE INDEX ON :Product(nodeID);
```

You can also change the [storage mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage) from
`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` to `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`. This will disable the
creation of durability files (snapshots and WAL files) and you will no longer
have any ACID guarantees. Other transactions will be able to see the changes of
ongoing transactions. Also, transaction will be able to see the changes they are
doing. This means that the transactions can be committed in random orders, and
the updates to the data, in the end, might not be correct. 

But, if you import on one thread, batch of data after a batch of data, there
should be absolutely no issues, and you will gain 6 times faster import with 6
times less memory consumption.

After import you can switch back to the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode or
continue running analytics queries (only read queries) in the
`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode to continue benefiting from low memory consumption. 

To switch between modes, run the following queries on a running instance:

```cypher
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL;
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL;
```

To check the current storage mode, run: 

```cypher
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

**Change the storage mode to analytical before import.**

```cypher
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL;
```

### 3. Importing nodes

To import nodes using a LOAD CSV clause let's examine the clause syntax:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "csv-file-path.csv" ( WITH | NO ) HEADER [IGNORE BAD] [DELIMITER <delimiter-string>] [QUOTE <quote-string>] AS <variable-name>
```

The file is now located at `/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv` and it has a header
row. There is no need to ignore bad rows, the default deliminator is `,` and
the default quote character `"`, the same as in the exported CSV file, so no
changes are necessary.

The first row of the LOAD CSV clause therefore looks like this:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
```

Nodes are always imported before relationships so they will be imported first. 

The `shipping.csv` file contains the following columns important for node
creation: `_id`, `labels`, `employeeID`, `firstName`, `lastName`, `orderID`,
`productID`, `productName`, `shipName`, `title`, `unitPrice`.

The `_id` property is actually an internal node ID needed to create
relationships later on.

Execute queries in Memgraph Lab. Open your browser and go to
`http://localhost:3000/`, **Connect now** to the instance and go to the **Query
Execution** section.

#### Employee nodes

Begin with `Employee` nodes. 

After establishing the location and format of the CSV file, filter out the rows
that contain the label `:Employee`:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Employee'
```

Then, create nodes with a certain label and properties. As an example, let's
look at the property `_id`. To add the property to the node, define its name in
Memgraph and assigned the value of a specific column in the CSV file. 

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Employee'
CREATE (e:Employee {nodeID: row._id})
```

So `nodeID: row._id` part of the query instructs Memgraph to create a property
named `nodeID` and assign it the value paired with key `_id`. First created
node will be assigned the value from the first data row, second node from the
second data row, etc.

**After matching up the keys and values for all properties, the finished query looks like this:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Employee'
CREATE (e:Employee {nodeID: row._id, employeeID: row.employeeID, firstName: row.firstName, lastName: row.lastName, title: row.title});

MATCH (e:Employee)
RETURN e; 
```

The second query will show all 9 created nodes. 

Copy the query in the **Cypher Editor** and **Run Query**.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/employees.png)

#### Order nodes

Relevant properties for the `Order` nodes are `_id`, `orderID` and `shipName`.

**To create `Order` nodes run the following query:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Order'
CREATE (o:Order {nodeID: row._id, orderID: row.orderID, shipName: row.shipName});

MATCH (o:Order)
RETURN o; 
```

The second query will show all 830 created nodes:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/orders.png)

#### Product nodes

Relevant properties for the `Product` nodes are `_id`, `productID`, `productName`
and `unitPrice`.

As the parser parses all the values as strings, and the `unitPrice` are numbers,
they need to be converted to appropriate data type.

**To create `Product` nodes run the following query:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Product'
CREATE (p:Product {nodeID: row._id, productID: row.productID, productName: row.productName, unitPrice: ToFloat(row.unitPrice)});

MATCH (p:Product)
RETURN p; 
```

The second query will show all 77 created nodes:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/product.png)

### 4. Graph improvements

At this point it would be nice to improve the look of the nodes visually. At the
moment, nodes in the graph are represented with their labels, but it would be
more useful if their name attribute was written. 

To adjust the look of the graph using Graph Style Language, open the Graph Style
Editor. Find the following code block:

```
@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "name") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "name"))
}
```

It defines that if the node has the property `name`, its label on the visual
graph will be that property. 

As none of the imported nodes have the property `name`, this part of the code
needs to be adjusted to use the properties nodes do have. 

Replace those three lines of code with the following block and **Apply** the
changes:

```
@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "firstName") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "firstName"))
}

@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "orderID") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "orderID"))
}

@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "productName") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "productName"))
}
```

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/GSS.png)

Visual appearance of the graph can be changed in many different ways, so be sure
to check the [GSS documentation](/data-visualization/graph-style-script). 

### 5. Importing relationships

Now that all the 916 nodes have been imported, they can be connected with relationships. 

The first row of the LOAD CSV remains the same:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
```

The `shipping.csv` file contains the following values important for relationship
creation:  `_type`, `_start`, `_end`, `quantity` and `unitPrice`.

The `_type` defines relationships type,  `_start` and `_end` values define which
nodes need to be connected based on their ID. 

#### :REPORTS_TO relationships

Begin with `:REPORTS_TO` relationship. 

After establishing the location and format of the CSV file, filter out the rows
that contain the type `REPORTS_TO`:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._type = 'REPORTS_TO'
```

Now instruct Memgraph to find the nodes with certain IDs in order to create a
relationship between them. As node IDs are unique we can just define that any
node with a certain ID is a starting point, and another node with a certain ID
is the end point of the relationship type `REPORTS_TO`.

**The LOAD CSV query creates 8 `:REPORTS_TO` relationships:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._type = 'REPORTS_TO'
MATCH (n {nodeID: row._start}), (n2 {nodeID: row._end})
CREATE (n)-[:REPORTS_TO]->(n2);

MATCH p=()-[:REPORTS_TO]->()
RETURN p;
```

The second query returns all the nodes connected with the `REPORTS_TO` type of
relationship. 

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/reports_to.png)

#### :SOLD relationships

**The LOAD CSV query creates 830 `:SOLD` relationships:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._type = 'SOLD'
MATCH (n {nodeID: row._start}), (n2 {nodeID: row._end})
CREATE (n)-[:SOLD]->(n2);

MATCH p=()-[:SOLD]->()
RETURN p;
```

The second query returns all the nodes connected with the `SOLD` type of
relationship. 

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/sold.png)

#### :CONTAINS relationships

This relationship type has properties about the `quantity` of products one order
contains.

As the parser parses all the values as strings, and the value of this
relationship property are numbers, they need to be converted to appropriate
type. 

**The LOAD CSV query creates 2155 `CONTAINS` relationships:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._type = 'CONTAINS'
MATCH (n {nodeID: row._start}), (n2 {nodeID: row._end})
CREATE (n)-[:CONTAINS {quantity: ToInteger(row.quantity)}]->(n2);

MATCH p=()-[:CONTAINS]->()
RETURN p;
```

The second query returns all the nodes connected with the `CONTAINS` type of
relationship. 

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/contains.png)

## After import

Once all the 916 nodes and 2993 relationships have been imported decide whether
you want to switch back to the transactional storage mode or not. Remember that
the analytical storage mode you are using right now has no ACID compliance. 

To switch back to the analytical storage mode, run: 

```cypher
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL;
```

To check the switch was successful, run: 

```cypher
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

You can query the database using the [Cypher query language](/querying), use
various [graph algorithms and modules](/advanced-algorithms) from our
open-source repository MAGE to solve graph analytics problems, create awesome
customized visual displays of your nodes and relationships with [Graph Style
Script](/data-visualization/graph-style-script) and above all - enjoy your new
graph database!

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrate from Neo4j to Memgraph
description: Switch from Neo4j to Memgraph smoothly. Detailed documentation to guide the migration process for a seamless transition to Memgraph. 
---

# Migrate from Neo4j to Memgraph

Memgraph is a native in-memory graph database specialized for real-time
use-cases such us streaming, analytical processing etc. It uses Cypher query
language and Bolt protocol. This means that you can use the same tools and
drivers that you are already using with Neo4j. Due to the ACID compliance, data
persistency and replication support in community version, Memgraph can be used
as main database for your applications, instead of Neo4j. 

This tutorial is also available as a video:

<br />

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LNHH1Od6ZqM"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="autoplay; encrypted-media"
  allowFullScreen
></iframe>

## Prerequisites

To follow this tutorial, you will need to have the following:

- Running Neo4j instance (with your data, or use the sample data provided)
- [Latest `memgraph/memgraph-platform` Docker image](https://memgraph.com/download)

## Data schema

One of the first steps to consider is how to migrate your data. If you have your
data in the form of [Cypher queries](/data-migration/cypherl) or
[CSV](/data-migration/csv) or [JSON](/data-migration/json) format, you can
import these formats into Memgraph. Keep in mind that for importing larger
datasets it is recommended to use CSV format or pure Cypher queries (Memgraph's
CYPHERL format), since they can be imported into Memgraph natively, faster than
JSON format.

This tutorial will go through exporting data from Neo4j into CSV files and
importing it into Memgraph using [LOAD CSV](/data-migration/csv)
query and Memgraph's user visual interface [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization).

The sample dataset consists of 3 different kinds of nodes (Employee, Order and
Product) connected with 3 types of relationships as described by the graph
schema below: 

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/shipping_schema.png)

To create this graph in your Neo4j instance run the following queries:

```cypher
LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/orders.csv' AS column
MERGE (order:Order {orderID: column.OrderID})
    ON CREATE SET order.shipName = column.ShipName;

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/products.csv' AS column
MERGE (product:Product {productID: column.ProductID})
  ON CREATE SET product.productName = column.ProductName, product.unitPrice = toFloat(column.UnitPrice);

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/employees.csv' AS column
MERGE (e:Employee {employeeID:column.EmployeeID})
  ON CREATE SET e.firstName = column.FirstName, e.lastName = column.LastName, e.title = column.Title;

CREATE INDEX product_id FOR (p:Product) ON (p.productID);
CREATE INDEX product_name FOR (p:Product) ON (p.productName);
CREATE INDEX employee_id FOR (e:Employee) ON (e.employeeID);
CALL db.awaitIndexes();

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/orders.csv' AS column
MATCH (order:Order {orderID: column.OrderID})
MATCH (product:Product {productID: column.ProductID})
MERGE (order)-[op:CONTAINS]->(product)
  ON CREATE SET op.unitPrice = toFloat(column.UnitPrice), op.quantity = toFloat(column.Quantity);

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/orders.csv' AS column
MATCH (order:Order {orderID: column.OrderID})
MATCH (employee:Employee {employeeID: column.EmployeeID})
MERGE (employee)-[:SOLD]->(order);

LOAD CSV WITH HEADERS FROM 'https://gist.githubusercontent.com/jexp/054bc6baf36604061bf407aa8cd08608/raw/8bdd36dfc88381995e6823ff3f419b5a0cb8ac4f/employees.csv' AS column
MATCH (employee:Employee {employeeID: column.EmployeeID})
MATCH (manager:Employee {employeeID: column.ReportsTo})
MERGE (employee)-[:REPORTS_TO]->(manager);
```

If you are going to use different dataset to migrate, be aware of the
differences between Neo4j and [Memgraph data
types](/fundamentals/data-types) (for example, Memgraph doesn't support
`DateTime()` as there is no temporal type in Memgraph that supports timezones yet, 
but you can modify data to use `localDateTime()`).

## Exporting data from Neo4j

Download the CSV file
[shipping.csv](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/data-migration/csv-cypher/shipping.csv)
containing the data above if you don't want to go through the exporting process. 

To get your data out of Neo4j instance, use the Neo4j APOC export functionality.
To install APOC, select the project, then in the right-side menu select *Plugins
-> APOC* and press install.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/install_APOC.png)

Then enable export by setting the configuration flag `apoc.export.file.enabled`
to `true` in the `apoc.config` file located in the `config` directory. To open
the directory, select the active project, click on *...* -> *Open folder* ->
*Configuration*. 

Export the data into a CSV file using:

```cypher
CALL apoc.export.csv.all("shipping.csv", {})
```

Once exported, the file is located in Neo4j's *Import* folder. To open it,
select the active project, click on *...* -> *Open folder* -> *Import*.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/import_folder.png)

## Importing data into Memgraph

Now that the CSV file containing the needed data has been generated,  let's
import data into Memgraph. 

As the original location of file is quite cumbersome, relocate it somewhere
more accessible. 

### 1. Starting Memgraph with Docker

When working with Docker, the file needs to be transferred from your local
directory into the Docker container where Memgraph can access it.

This can be done by copying the file into your running instance. 

1. Run Memgraph with

    ```
    docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform
    ```

2. To copy the file inside the container, open a new terminal to find out the
    `CONTAINER ID` with `docker ps`, then run:

    ```
    docker cp /path_to_local_folder/shipping.csv <container_ID>:/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv
    ```

    If the container ID is `bed1e5c9192d` and the file is locally located at
    `C:/Data` the command would look like this:

    ```
    docker cp C:/Data/shipping.csv bed1:/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv
    ```

3. To check if the files are inside the container, first run: 

    ```
    docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID bash
    ```

4. List the files inside the `/usr/lib/memgraph`. 

    ```nocopy
    C:\Users\Vlasta>docker ps
    CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                        COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                                                                    NAMES
    bed1e5c9192d   memgraph/memgraph-platform   "/bin/sh -c '/usr/bi…"   2 minutes ago   Up 2 minutes   0.0.0.0:3000->3000/tcp, 0.0.0.0:7444->7444/tcp, 0.0.0.0:7687->7687/tcp   recursing_blackburn

    C:\Users\Vlasta>docker cp C:/Data/shipping.csv bed1:/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv

    C:\Users\Vlasta>docker exec -it bed1 bash
    root@bed1e5c9192d:/# ls /usr/lib/memgraph
    auth_module  memgraph  python_support  query_modules  shipping.csv
    root@bed1e5c9192d:/#
    ```

### 2. Gaining speed with indexes and analytical storage mode

Although the dataset imported in this tutorial is quite small, one day you might
want to import really big datasets with billions of nodes and relationships and
you will require all the extra speed you can get. 

To gain speed you can [create indexes](/fundamentals/indexes) on the
properties used to connect nodes with relationships which are the values in the
`_id` column in the CSV files, and in Memgraph they will be named `nodeID`.

**To create indexes, run: **

```cypher
CREATE INDEX ON :Employee(nodeID);
CREATE INDEX ON :Order(nodeID);
CREATE INDEX ON :Product(nodeID);
```

You can also change the [storage mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage) from
`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` to `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`. This will disable the
creation of durability files (snapshots and WAL files) and you will no longer
have any ACID guarantees. Other transactions will be able to see the changes of
ongoing transactions. Also, transaction will be able to see the changes they are
doing. This means that the transactions can be committed in random orders, and
the updates to the data, in the end, might not be correct. 

But, if you import on one thread, batch of data after a batch of data, there
should be absolutely no issues, and you will gain 6 times faster import with 6
times less memory consumption.

After import you can switch back to the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode or
continue running analytics queries (only read queries) in the
`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode to continue benefiting from low memory consumption. 

To switch between modes, run the following queries on a running instance:

```cypher
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL;
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL;
```

To check the current storage mode, run: 

```cypher
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

**Change the storage mode to analytical before import.**

```cypher
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL;
```

### 3. Importing nodes

To import nodes using a LOAD CSV clause let's examine the clause syntax:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "csv-file-path.csv" ( WITH | NO ) HEADER [IGNORE BAD] [DELIMITER <delimiter-string>] [QUOTE <quote-string>] AS <variable-name>
```

The file is now located at `/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv` and it has a header
row. There is no need to ignore bad rows, the default deliminator is `,` and
the default quote character `"`, the same as in the exported CSV file, so no
changes are necessary.

The first row of the LOAD CSV clause therefore looks like this:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
```

Nodes are always imported before relationships so they will be imported first. 

The `shipping.csv` file contains the following columns important for node
creation: `_id`, `labels`, `employeeID`, `firstName`, `lastName`, `orderID`,
`productID`, `productName`, `shipName`, `title`, `unitPrice`.

The `_id` property is actually an internal node ID needed to create
relationships later on.

Execute queries in Memgraph Lab. Open your browser and go to
`http://localhost:3000/`, **Connect now** to the instance and go to the **Query
Execution** section.

#### Employee nodes

Begin with `Employee` nodes. 

After establishing the location and format of the CSV file, filter out the rows
that contain the label `:Employee`:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Employee'
```

Then, create nodes with a certain label and properties. As an example, let's
look at the property `_id`. To add the property to the node, define its name in
Memgraph and assigned the value of a specific column in the CSV file. 

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Employee'
CREATE (e:Employee {nodeID: row._id})
```

So `nodeID: row._id` part of the query instructs Memgraph to create a property
named `nodeID` and assign it the value paired with key `_id`. First created
node will be assigned the value from the first data row, second node from the
second data row, etc.

**After matching up the keys and values for all properties, the finished query looks like this:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Employee'
CREATE (e:Employee {nodeID: row._id, employeeID: row.employeeID, firstName: row.firstName, lastName: row.lastName, title: row.title});

MATCH (e:Employee)
RETURN e; 
```

The second query will show all 9 created nodes. 

Copy the query in the **Cypher Editor** and **Run Query**.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/employees.png)

#### Order nodes

Relevant properties for the `Order` nodes are `_id`, `orderID` and `shipName`.

**To create `Order` nodes run the following query:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Order'
CREATE (o:Order {nodeID: row._id, orderID: row.orderID, shipName: row.shipName});

MATCH (o:Order)
RETURN o; 
```

The second query will show all 830 created nodes:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/orders.png)

#### Product nodes

Relevant properties for the `Product` nodes are `_id`, `productID`, `productName`
and `unitPrice`.

As the parser parses all the values as strings, and the `unitPrice` are numbers,
they need to be converted to appropriate data type.

**To create `Product` nodes run the following query:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._labels = ':Product'
CREATE (p:Product {nodeID: row._id, productID: row.productID, productName: row.productName, unitPrice: ToFloat(row.unitPrice)});

MATCH (p:Product)
RETURN p; 
```

The second query will show all 77 created nodes:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/product.png)

### 4. Graph improvements

At this point it would be nice to improve the look of the nodes visually. At the
moment, nodes in the graph are represented with their labels, but it would be
more useful if their name attribute was written. 

To adjust the look of the graph using Graph Style Language, open the Graph Style
Editor. Find the following code block:

```
@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "name") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "name"))
}
```

It defines that if the node has the property `name`, its label on the visual
graph will be that property. 

As none of the imported nodes have the property `name`, this part of the code
needs to be adjusted to use the properties nodes do have. 

Replace those three lines of code with the following block and **Apply** the
changes:

```
@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "firstName") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "firstName"))
}

@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "orderID") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "orderID"))
}

@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "productName") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "productName"))
}
```

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/GSS.png)

Visual appearance of the graph can be changed in many different ways, so be sure
to check the [GSS documentation](/data-visualization/graph-style-script). 

### 5. Importing relationships

Now that all the 916 nodes have been imported, they can be connected with relationships. 

The first row of the LOAD CSV remains the same:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
```

The `shipping.csv` file contains the following values important for relationship
creation:  `_type`, `_start`, `_end`, `quantity` and `unitPrice`.

The `_type` defines relationships type,  `_start` and `_end` values define which
nodes need to be connected based on their ID. 

#### :REPORTS_TO relationships

Begin with `:REPORTS_TO` relationship. 

After establishing the location and format of the CSV file, filter out the rows
that contain the type `REPORTS_TO`:

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._type = 'REPORTS_TO'
```

Now instruct Memgraph to find the nodes with certain IDs in order to create a
relationship between them. As node IDs are unique we can just define that any
node with a certain ID is a starting point, and another node with a certain ID
is the end point of the relationship type `REPORTS_TO`.

**The LOAD CSV query creates 8 `:REPORTS_TO` relationships:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._type = 'REPORTS_TO'
MATCH (n {nodeID: row._start}), (n2 {nodeID: row._end})
CREATE (n)-[:REPORTS_TO]->(n2);

MATCH p=()-[:REPORTS_TO]->()
RETURN p;
```

The second query returns all the nodes connected with the `REPORTS_TO` type of
relationship. 

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/reports_to.png)

#### :SOLD relationships

**The LOAD CSV query creates 830 `:SOLD` relationships:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._type = 'SOLD'
MATCH (n {nodeID: row._start}), (n2 {nodeID: row._end})
CREATE (n)-[:SOLD]->(n2);

MATCH p=()-[:SOLD]->()
RETURN p;
```

The second query returns all the nodes connected with the `SOLD` type of
relationship. 

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/sold.png)

#### :CONTAINS relationships

This relationship type has properties about the `quantity` of products one order
contains.

As the parser parses all the values as strings, and the value of this
relationship property are numbers, they need to be converted to appropriate
type. 

**The LOAD CSV query creates 2155 `CONTAINS` relationships:**

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/usr/lib/memgraph/shipping.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
WITH row WHERE row._type = 'CONTAINS'
MATCH (n {nodeID: row._start}), (n2 {nodeID: row._end})
CREATE (n)-[:CONTAINS {quantity: ToInteger(row.quantity)}]->(n2);

MATCH p=()-[:CONTAINS]->()
RETURN p;
```

The second query returns all the nodes connected with the `CONTAINS` type of
relationship. 

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j/contains.png)

## After import

Once all the 916 nodes and 2993 relationships have been imported decide whether
you want to switch back to the transactional storage mode or not. Remember that
the analytical storage mode you are using right now has no ACID compliance. 

To switch back to the analytical storage mode, run: 

```cypher
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL;
```

To check the switch was successful, run: 

```cypher
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

You can query the database using the [Cypher query language](/querying), use
various [graph algorithms and modules](/advanced-algorithms) from our
open-source repository MAGE to solve graph analytics problems, create awesome
customized visual displays of your nodes and relationships with [Graph Style
Script](/data-visualization/graph-style-script) and above all - enjoy your new
graph database!
