pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms.mdx, before:

---
title: Migrate from RDBMS to Memgraph
description: Easily transition from RDBMS to Memgraph. Our detailed documentation makes the migration process straightforward for competent graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

#  Migrate from RDBMS to Memgraph using CSV files

This tutorial will help you import your data from a MySQL database into Memgraph
using CSV files.

In two of our blog posts, we've covered the [differences between relational and
graph database](https://memgraph.com/blog/graph-database-vs-relational-database)
and outlined the [benefits of graph
databases](https://memgraph.com/blog/the-benefits-of-using-a-graph-database-instead-of-sql).


In essence, graph databases replace tables with nodes connected through
relationships. Opting for a graph database is an excellent choice if the data is 
highly connected and require frequent retrieval with a flexible data model.
If you're seeking a quick and reliable database that allows effortless 
modifications of data model and properties, a graph database is the way to go.

<Callout>

You can also use the `migrate` module which includes procedures such as
`migrate.mysql()`, `migrate.sql_server()`, and `migrate.oracle_db()` to transfer
and transform data into graph structures. For more details, see the [migrate
module documentation](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/migrate).

</Callout>

## Prerequisites

To follow along, you will need:

- **Memgraph MAGE** which includes **Memgraph** and **MAGE**, an advanced graph
  algorithms and modules library. To install the Memgraph MAGE and set it up,
please follow the [getting started guide](/getting-started).
- (optional) A running relational database either with your own schema and data
  or the data we provided to populate the tables.

## Data Model

We will learn how to import data from a relational database to Memgraph using
the example of an online store. The data model of the relational database that
we will use for this tutorial includes 5 tables with the following properties:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_data_model.png)

## Migrate data using CSV files

<Steps>

### Export the data from a table to a CSV file

To begin, you need to export the existing data into CSV files table by table
either using the *Export Wizard* or by running a query.

#### Exporting data using the Export Wizard

In this example, we are using the *Export Wizard* in the *MySQL Workbench*. To
export the **Customer** table, right-click on the table name and select the
**Table Data Export Wizard**.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_export_wizard.png)

Click **Next** and on the second step of the Wizard do the following:

1.  Define the **File Path**. Usually, you can choose any location, but for this
    tutorial place the files in the root and name the file the same as the
    table.
2.  Select the **CSV** format if it isn't already selected.
3.  Select comma as a **Field Separator**.
4.  Leave the **Line Separator** as **LF**.
5.  Delete the quotations from the **Enclose Strings** option and leave it
    empty.

Continue clicking **Next** until **Finish**.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_export_wizard_step_2.png)

In the root folder of your computer, you should find the **customer.csv** file.
When opened in a text editor or a spreadsheet program, the data from the
**customer** table should look like this:

```csv
id,name,email
1,Amos Burton,amos.burton@mail.em
2,Chrisjen Avasarala,cavasarala@mail.em
3,James Holden,james.holden@mail.em
4,Alex Kamal,akamal@post.com
5,Camina Drummer,cdrummer@post.com
6,Marco Inaros,marco.inaros@post.com
7,Naomi Nagata,naomi.nagata@post.com
8,Julie Mao,jmao@post.com
```

#### Exporting data by running a query

You can also export data by writing a query, but the data can be exported only
to a specific file location you can locate by running the following query:

```sql
SHOW VARIABLES LIKE "secure_file_priv";
```

I got this value as a response `'secure_file_priv', 'C:\ProgramData\MySQL\MySQL
Server 8.0\Uploads\'`, which I can now use as a destination for my CSV file.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_file_location.png)

Check that you've selected the database you want to export data from as your
default one. If the database is selected the name is bolded. If it is not,
double-click on it.

To export the **customerpurchase** table, execute the query below. Notice how
we changed the backslashes into slashes to avoid getting an error. You can also
write double backslashes:

```sql
SELECT 'id', 'idcustomer', 'idpurchase'
UNION
SELECT
id,
idcustomer,
idpurchase
FROM customerpurchase INTO OUTFILE 'C:/ProgramData/MySQL/MySQL Server 8.0/Uploads/customerpurchase.csv'
FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
LINES TERMINATED BY '\r\n';
```

In the first line we defined the headings, and then selected fields from a table
that will be exported to a specified field. We also defined the comma sign as a
field terminator and lines will be terminated by `\r\n`.

#### Exported CSV files

Export the rest of the tables using the preferred process and place all the CSV
files in the root directory.

Below are the CSV files we exported from our relational database. Feel free to
download them, place them in the root directory and use them for the rest of
this tutorial.

To place the files in the root directory you need Admin rights on your computer.

- [`customer.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/customer.csv)
- [`customerpurchase.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/customerpurchase.csv)
- [`product.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/product.csv)
- [`productpurchase.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/productpurchase.csv)
- [`purchase.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/purchase.csv)

### Transfer CSV files into a Docker container

Now we need to copy the CSV files from your local directory into the Docker
container so Memgraph can access them.

1. Start your Memgraph instance by writing the following command in a terminal:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-mage
```

2. Open a new terminal and find the `CONTAINER ID` of the Memgraph Docker
   container:

```
docker ps
```

3. Place yourself in the root directory and copy files into the container with
   the following command. You should replace `CONTAINER ID` and for each file
   change the source and destination path:

```
docker cp source.csv <CONTAINER ID>:/destination.csv
```

In the directory where your files are located, run the following five commands to copy the 
five CSV files to the Docker container, changing the file paths in both the 
source and destination with each new file. 
Below is an example of copying the `customer.csv` file:

```terminal
docker cp customer.csv <CONTAINER ID>:/customer.csv
```

To check if the files have indeed been copied run the following command. Make 
sure you've replaced the `CONTAINER ID` value with the value of your container id:

```terminal
docker exec -it <CONTAINER_ID> bash
```

And then use the `ls` command to list all the files and directories in
the container's root. You should be able to see the CSV files we just copied to
the container.

```terminal copy=false
root@bbbc43620e5c:/# ls
bin   customer.csv          dev  home  lib    lib64  media  opt   product.csv          purchase.csv  run   srv              supervisord.pid  tmp  var
boot  customerpurchase.csv  etc  lab   lib32  mage   mnt    proc  productpurchase.csv  root          sbin  supervisord.log  sys              usr
```

### Run Memgraph Lab

Connect to your Memgraph database using [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization).

Place yourself in the **Query Execution** section where you can execute queries
 in the **Cypher editor** to import data into Memgraph.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_lab_query.png)


### Gain speed with indexes and analytical storage mode

Although the dataset imported in this tutorial is quite small, one day you might 
want to import really big datasets with billions of nodes and relationships and 
you will require all the extra speed you can get.

To gain speed you can [create indexes](/fundamentals/indexes) on the `id` 
properties used to connect nodes with relationships.

**To create indexes, run:**

```
CREATE INDEX ON :Customer(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :Purchase(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :Product(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :CustomerPurchase(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :ProductPurchase(id);
```

You can also change the [storage mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage) from `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` to `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`. This will disable the 
creation of durability files (snapshots and WAL files), and you will no longer 
have any ACID guarantees. 
Other transactions will be able to see the changes in ongoing transactions. 
Also, transactions will be able to see the changes they are making. This means 
that the transactions can be committed in random orders, and the updates to the 
data, in the end, might not be correct.

But, if you import on one thread, batch of data after batch of data, there should be absolutely no issues, and you will gain 6 times faster import with 6 times less memory consumption.

If this approach is still too slow for your dataset size, consider importing nodes and then relationships concurrently.

After import, you can switch back to the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode or continue running analytics queries (only read queries) in the `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode to continue benefiting from low memory consumption.

To switch between modes, run the following queries on a running instance:

```
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL;
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL;
```

To check the current storage mode, run:

```
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

**Change the storage mode to analytical before import.**

```
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL;
```

<Callout>
Learn more about the shortest path to import data into Memgraph by reading [best
practices for import](/data-migration/best-practices). 
</Callout>

### Import nodes into Memgraph

As we already mentioned, graph databases do not use tables to store data, but
nodes with relationships that connect them. If you take a look at the data model
we were using in the relational database we can describe it with a single
sentence: *"Customers make purchases of product."*

Nodes would be the customers, purchases and products while the relationship
between them is that customers **MAKE** purchases (`customerpurchase` table) 
**OF** product (`productpurchase` table).

Let's start by importing the nodes into Memgraph using the 
[`LOAD CSV`](/querying/clauses/load-csv) Cypher clause. The syntax of the 
`LOAD CSV` clause is:

```cypher
LOAD CSV from "/file.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
CREATE (n:Node {property1: row.property1, property2: row.property2});
```

First we need to define the source file path and set the `HEADER` option to
`WITH` because our CSV file has headers. The clause will parse each `row` and
create nodes with properties. 

The following query can be used to create `Customer` nodes.
Copy and paste it in the **Cypher editor** in **Memgraph Lab**, then click
**Run query**:

```cypher
LOAD CSV from "/customer.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
CREATE (c:Customer {id: row.id, name: row.name, email: row.email});
```

The count of the nodes should go up by eight newly created `Customer` nodes.
Let's repeat the process to create nodes for `Purchases`.

If the property data type is not defined, the default data type will be a string. 
In the following query, the date property when creating `Purchase` nodes is set 
to a `Date` type:

```cypher
LOAD CSV from "/purchase.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
CREATE (p:Purchase {id: row.id, date: Date(row.date)});
```

For node `Product`, in order to define the type of the `price` property as a 
`float`, we'll use the [ToFloat](/querying/functions#scalar-functions) function:

```cypher
LOAD CSV from "/product.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
CREATE (pr:Product {id: row.id, brand: row.brand, name: row.name, price: ToFloat(row.price)});
```

There should now be 24 new nodes imported into your graph database. 
Visualize your database in Memgraph Lab by running the following Cypher query:

```cypher
MATCH (n) RETURN n;
```

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_nodes.png)

If you click on each node, you can see its properties. The nodes are still not
connected to each other, so let's focus on that by importing the rest of the CSV
files.

### Import relationships into Memgraph

We've imported CSV files containing data about customers, purchases and
products. In our graph database, they are represented as nodes. Now we need to
show the relationships those nodes have with each other.

We already [created indexes](#4-gain-speed-with-indexes-and-analytical-storage-mode) 
on the `id` properties which will speed up the creation of relationships by 
shortening the time of scanning the database. 

Relationships are defined by data in the `customerpurchase` and
`productpurchase` tables and CSV files. If you open the `customerpurchase.csv`
file you can see it is actually connecting two different nodes, customer and
purchase, via their IDs. That is why we'll use the `LOAD CSV` clause to match
those IDs with existing nodes and create a relationship between them. 

In this example, the relationship is that a customer `MADE` a purchase. The arrow 
of the relationship defines that a customer makes the purchase and not the other 
way around. And lastly, we are defining that the row with the `customerpurchase` 
ID is actually the ID of the `:MADE` relationship.

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/customerpurchase.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
MATCH (c:Customer {id: row.idcustomer})
MATCH (p:Purchase {id: row.idpurchase})
CREATE (c)-[m:MADE]->(p)
SET m.id = row.id;
```

Running this query made 12 new relationships between customers and purchases.
Let's now create relationships between products and purchases. Notice how we
defined the quantity data type as an integer. Once this last query is run, you
should have 24 nodes and 29 relationships (edges).

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/productpurchase.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
MATCH (pr:Product {id: row.idproduct})
MATCH (p:Purchase {id: row.idpurchase})
CREATE (p)-[o:OF]->(pr)
SET o.id = row.id
SET o.quantity = ToInteger(row.quantity);
```

### Data model and updating the schema

The data model in a graph database now looks like this:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_graph_data_model.png)

We can also visualize data schema in Memgraph Lab in the Graph schema window:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_graph_schema.png)

If you decided you want to add a property to any of the nodes or relationships
you can do so at any point without disrupting the schema.

Let's add the `city` property to customer 4:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Customer {id: "4"})
SET c.city = "Zagreb"
RETURN c
```

You can check if this property has been added by running the following query and
clicking on the node in the **Graph** view:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Customer {id: "4"})
RETURN c
```

As the last step of this tutorial let's check all the nodes and relationships
we've imported into Memgraph by running the following query:

```cypher
MATCH (c)-[m]-(p)-[o]-(pr)
RETURN c,m,p,o,pr;
```

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_graph_database.png)

</Steps>

## Where to next?

Congratulations! You now have a graph database. You can query it using the
[Cypher query language](/querying), use various [graph
algorithms](/advanced-algorithms) and modules from our open-source repository
MAGE to solve graph analytics problems, create awesome customized visual
displays of your nodes and relationships with [Graph Style
Script](/data-visualization/graph-style-script), find out how to connect any
[streams of data](/data-streams) you might have with Memgraph and above all - enjoy your graph database!

Commit message:

Add migration guides (#1183)
* Add migration guides

* Add docs for Apache Spark

* Add docs to migrate Neo4j using a single Cypher query

* Add images for data lake migration

* Add guide for migration using dremio

* Typo

* Typo

* Add new migrations

* Updated index

* Add servicenow

* Add icons for migration guide

* Update general suggestions

* Fix guide

* Add pr comments

* Address PR comments

* Update main migration page

* Update data migration

* remove supported sources page

---------

Co-authored-by: Matea Pesic <80577904+matea16@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: matea16 <mateapesic@hotmail.com>

pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrate from RDBMS to Memgraph
description: Easily transition from RDBMS to Memgraph. Our detailed documentation makes the migration process straightforward for competent graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

#  Migrate from RDBMS to Memgraph using CSV files

This tutorial will help you import your data from a MySQL database into Memgraph
using CSV files.

<Callout>

This way of migrating data into Memgraph requires exporting the data from the source relational
database system into CSV files, and then importing them into Memgraph. For direct data import 
from a relational database system to Memgraph, please check out 
our [guide for using migration modules inside Memgraph MAGE](/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms-directly).

</Callout>

In two of our blog posts, we've covered the [differences between relational and
graph database](https://memgraph.com/blog/graph-database-vs-relational-database)
and outlined the [benefits of graph
databases](https://memgraph.com/blog/the-benefits-of-using-a-graph-database-instead-of-sql).


In essence, graph databases replace tables with nodes connected through
relationships. Opting for a graph database is an excellent choice if the data is 
highly connected and require frequent retrieval with a flexible data model.
If you're seeking a quick and reliable database that allows effortless 
modifications of data model and properties, a graph database is the way to go.

## Prerequisites

To follow along, you will need:

- **Memgraph MAGE** which includes **Memgraph** and **MAGE**, an advanced graph
  algorithms and modules library. To install the Memgraph MAGE and set it up,
please follow the [getting started guide](/getting-started).
- (optional) A running relational database either with your own schema and data
  or the data we provided to populate the tables.

## Data Model

We will learn how to import data from a relational database to Memgraph using
the example of an online store. The data model of the relational database that
we will use for this tutorial includes 5 tables with the following properties:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_data_model.png)

## Migrate data using CSV files

<Steps>

### Export the data from a table to a CSV file

To begin, you need to export the existing data into CSV files table by table
either using the *Export Wizard* or by running a query.

#### Exporting data using the Export Wizard

In this example, we are using the *Export Wizard* in the *MySQL Workbench*. To
export the **Customer** table, right-click on the table name and select the
**Table Data Export Wizard**.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_export_wizard.png)

Click **Next** and on the second step of the Wizard do the following:

1.  Define the **File Path**. Usually, you can choose any location, but for this
    tutorial place the files in the root and name the file the same as the
    table.
2.  Select the **CSV** format if it isn't already selected.
3.  Select comma as a **Field Separator**.
4.  Leave the **Line Separator** as **LF**.
5.  Delete the quotations from the **Enclose Strings** option and leave it
    empty.

Continue clicking **Next** until **Finish**.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_export_wizard_step_2.png)

In the root folder of your computer, you should find the **customer.csv** file.
When opened in a text editor or a spreadsheet program, the data from the
**customer** table should look like this:

```csv
id,name,email
1,Amos Burton,amos.burton@mail.em
2,Chrisjen Avasarala,cavasarala@mail.em
3,James Holden,james.holden@mail.em
4,Alex Kamal,akamal@post.com
5,Camina Drummer,cdrummer@post.com
6,Marco Inaros,marco.inaros@post.com
7,Naomi Nagata,naomi.nagata@post.com
8,Julie Mao,jmao@post.com
```

#### Exporting data by running a query

You can also export data by writing a query, but the data can be exported only
to a specific file location you can locate by running the following query:

```sql
SHOW VARIABLES LIKE "secure_file_priv";
```

I got this value as a response `'secure_file_priv', 'C:\ProgramData\MySQL\MySQL
Server 8.0\Uploads\'`, which I can now use as a destination for my CSV file.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_file_location.png)

Check that you've selected the database you want to export data from as your
default one. If the database is selected the name is bolded. If it is not,
double-click on it.

To export the **customerpurchase** table, execute the query below. Notice how
we changed the backslashes into slashes to avoid getting an error. You can also
write double backslashes:

```sql
SELECT 'id', 'idcustomer', 'idpurchase'
UNION
SELECT
id,
idcustomer,
idpurchase
FROM customerpurchase INTO OUTFILE 'C:/ProgramData/MySQL/MySQL Server 8.0/Uploads/customerpurchase.csv'
FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
LINES TERMINATED BY '\r\n';
```

In the first line we defined the headings, and then selected fields from a table
that will be exported to a specified field. We also defined the comma sign as a
field terminator and lines will be terminated by `\r\n`.

#### Exported CSV files

Export the rest of the tables using the preferred process and place all the CSV
files in the root directory.

Below are the CSV files we exported from our relational database. Feel free to
download them, place them in the root directory and use them for the rest of
this tutorial.

To place the files in the root directory you need Admin rights on your computer.

- [`customer.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/customer.csv)
- [`customerpurchase.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/customerpurchase.csv)
- [`product.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/product.csv)
- [`productpurchase.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/productpurchase.csv)
- [`purchase.csv`](https://public-assets.memgraph.com/tutorials/rdbms-migration-to-memgraph/purchase.csv)

### Transfer CSV files into a Docker container

Now we need to copy the CSV files from your local directory into the Docker
container so Memgraph can access them.

1. Start your Memgraph instance by writing the following command in a terminal:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-mage
```

2. Open a new terminal and find the `CONTAINER ID` of the Memgraph Docker
   container:

```
docker ps
```

3. Place yourself in the root directory and copy files into the container with
   the following command. You should replace `CONTAINER ID` and for each file
   change the source and destination path:

```
docker cp source.csv <CONTAINER ID>:/destination.csv
```

In the directory where your files are located, run the following five commands to copy the 
five CSV files to the Docker container, changing the file paths in both the 
source and destination with each new file. 
Below is an example of copying the `customer.csv` file:

```terminal
docker cp customer.csv <CONTAINER ID>:/customer.csv
```

To check if the files have indeed been copied run the following command. Make 
sure you've replaced the `CONTAINER ID` value with the value of your container id:

```terminal
docker exec -it <CONTAINER_ID> bash
```

And then use the `ls` command to list all the files and directories in
the container's root. You should be able to see the CSV files we just copied to
the container.

```terminal copy=false
root@bbbc43620e5c:/# ls
bin   customer.csv          dev  home  lib    lib64  media  opt   product.csv          purchase.csv  run   srv              supervisord.pid  tmp  var
boot  customerpurchase.csv  etc  lab   lib32  mage   mnt    proc  productpurchase.csv  root          sbin  supervisord.log  sys              usr
```

### Run Memgraph Lab

Connect to your Memgraph database using [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization).

Place yourself in the **Query Execution** section where you can execute queries
 in the **Cypher editor** to import data into Memgraph.

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_lab_query.png)


### Gain speed with indexes and analytical storage mode

Although the dataset imported in this tutorial is quite small, one day you might 
want to import really big datasets with billions of nodes and relationships and 
you will require all the extra speed you can get.

To gain speed you can [create indexes](/fundamentals/indexes) on the `id` 
properties used to connect nodes with relationships.

**To create indexes, run:**

```
CREATE INDEX ON :Customer(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :Purchase(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :Product(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :CustomerPurchase(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :ProductPurchase(id);
```

You can also change the [storage mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage) from `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` to `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`. This will disable the 
creation of durability files (snapshots and WAL files), and you will no longer 
have any ACID guarantees. 
Other transactions will be able to see the changes in ongoing transactions. 
Also, transactions will be able to see the changes they are making. This means 
that the transactions can be committed in random orders, and the updates to the 
data, in the end, might not be correct.

But, if you import on one thread, batch of data after batch of data, there should be absolutely no issues, and you will gain 6 times faster import with 6 times less memory consumption.

If this approach is still too slow for your dataset size, consider importing nodes and then relationships concurrently.

After import, you can switch back to the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode or continue running analytics queries (only read queries) in the `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode to continue benefiting from low memory consumption.

To switch between modes, run the following queries on a running instance:

```
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL;
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL;
```

To check the current storage mode, run:

```
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

**Change the storage mode to analytical before import.**

```
STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL;
```

<Callout>
Learn more about the shortest path to import data into Memgraph by reading [best
practices for import](/data-migration/best-practices). 
</Callout>

### Import nodes into Memgraph

As we already mentioned, graph databases do not use tables to store data, but
nodes with relationships that connect them. If you take a look at the data model
we were using in the relational database we can describe it with a single
sentence: *"Customers make purchases of product."*

Nodes would be the customers, purchases and products while the relationship
between them is that customers **MAKE** purchases (`customerpurchase` table) 
**OF** product (`productpurchase` table).

Let's start by importing the nodes into Memgraph using the 
[`LOAD CSV`](/querying/clauses/load-csv) Cypher clause. The syntax of the 
`LOAD CSV` clause is:

```cypher
LOAD CSV from "/file.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
CREATE (n:Node {property1: row.property1, property2: row.property2});
```

First we need to define the source file path and set the `HEADER` option to
`WITH` because our CSV file has headers. The clause will parse each `row` and
create nodes with properties. 

The following query can be used to create `Customer` nodes.
Copy and paste it in the **Cypher editor** in **Memgraph Lab**, then click
**Run query**:

```cypher
LOAD CSV from "/customer.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
CREATE (c:Customer {id: row.id, name: row.name, email: row.email});
```

The count of the nodes should go up by eight newly created `Customer` nodes.
Let's repeat the process to create nodes for `Purchases`.

If the property data type is not defined, the default data type will be a string. 
In the following query, the date property when creating `Purchase` nodes is set 
to a `Date` type:

```cypher
LOAD CSV from "/purchase.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
CREATE (p:Purchase {id: row.id, date: Date(row.date)});
```

For node `Product`, in order to define the type of the `price` property as a 
`float`, we'll use the [ToFloat](/querying/functions#scalar-functions) function:

```cypher
LOAD CSV from "/product.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
CREATE (pr:Product {id: row.id, brand: row.brand, name: row.name, price: ToFloat(row.price)});
```

There should now be 24 new nodes imported into your graph database. 
Visualize your database in Memgraph Lab by running the following Cypher query:

```cypher
MATCH (n) RETURN n;
```

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_nodes.png)

If you click on each node, you can see its properties. The nodes are still not
connected to each other, so let's focus on that by importing the rest of the CSV
files.

### Import relationships into Memgraph

We've imported CSV files containing data about customers, purchases and
products. In our graph database, they are represented as nodes. Now we need to
show the relationships those nodes have with each other.

We already [created indexes](#4-gain-speed-with-indexes-and-analytical-storage-mode) 
on the `id` properties which will speed up the creation of relationships by 
shortening the time of scanning the database. 

Relationships are defined by data in the `customerpurchase` and
`productpurchase` tables and CSV files. If you open the `customerpurchase.csv`
file you can see it is actually connecting two different nodes, customer and
purchase, via their IDs. That is why we'll use the `LOAD CSV` clause to match
those IDs with existing nodes and create a relationship between them. 

In this example, the relationship is that a customer `MADE` a purchase. The arrow 
of the relationship defines that a customer makes the purchase and not the other 
way around. And lastly, we are defining that the row with the `customerpurchase` 
ID is actually the ID of the `:MADE` relationship.

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/customerpurchase.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
MATCH (c:Customer {id: row.idcustomer})
MATCH (p:Purchase {id: row.idpurchase})
CREATE (c)-[m:MADE]->(p)
SET m.id = row.id;
```

Running this query made 12 new relationships between customers and purchases.
Let's now create relationships between products and purchases. Notice how we
defined the quantity data type as an integer. Once this last query is run, you
should have 24 nodes and 29 relationships (edges).

```cypher
LOAD CSV FROM "/productpurchase.csv" WITH HEADER AS row
MATCH (pr:Product {id: row.idproduct})
MATCH (p:Purchase {id: row.idpurchase})
CREATE (p)-[o:OF]->(pr)
SET o.id = row.id
SET o.quantity = ToInteger(row.quantity);
```

### Data model and updating the schema

The data model in a graph database now looks like this:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_graph_data_model.png)

We can also visualize data schema in Memgraph Lab in the Graph schema window:

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_graph_schema.png)

If you decided you want to add a property to any of the nodes or relationships
you can do so at any point without disrupting the schema.

Let's add the `city` property to customer 4:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Customer {id: "4"})
SET c.city = "Zagreb"
RETURN c
```

You can check if this property has been added by running the following query and
clicking on the node in the **Graph** view:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Customer {id: "4"})
RETURN c
```

As the last step of this tutorial let's check all the nodes and relationships
we've imported into Memgraph by running the following query:

```cypher
MATCH (c)-[m]-(p)-[o]-(pr)
RETURN c,m,p,o,pr;
```

![](/pages/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms/migrate_relational_database_graph_database.png)

</Steps>

## Where to next?

Congratulations! You now have a graph database. You can query it using the
[Cypher query language](/querying), use various [graph
algorithms](/advanced-algorithms) and modules from our open-source repository
MAGE to solve graph analytics problems, create awesome customized visual
displays of your nodes and relationships with [Graph Style
Script](/data-visualization/graph-style-script), find out how to connect any
[streams of data](/data-streams) you might have with Memgraph and above all - enjoy your graph database!
