pages/advanced-algorithms/install-mage.mdx, before:

---
title: Install MAGE graph algorithm library
description: Learn how to install Memgraph and explore the wide range of algorithms available through MAGE, enabling you to unlock valuable insights from your graph data.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Install MAGE graph algorithm library

Use MAGE with an instance installed within a [Docker container](#docker) or on
[Linux](#linux). 

## Docker

[Install Memgraph with Docker](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker) using
`memgraph-platform` or `memgraph-mage` images which include the MAGE library so
no additional installation is required to run the graph algorithms on your
data. 

<Callout type="info">

You can download a specific version of MAGE

For example, if you want to download version `3.1.1`, you should run the following
command:

```shell
docker run -p 7687:7687 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-mage:3.1.1-memgraph-3.1.1
```

</Callout>

## Linux

Follow the steps if you want to use the MAGE library with [installed Linux based
Memgraph package](/getting-started/install-memgraph). 

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Make sure the instance is not running</h3>}

Algorithms and query modules will be loaded into a Memgraph instance on startup
once you install MAGE, so make sure your instances are not running. 

{<h3 className="custom-header">Install dependencies</h3>}

To build from source, you will need:
- Python3
- Make
- CMake
- Clang
- UUID 
- [Rust and Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/getting-started/installation.html)

{<h3 className="custom-header">Set up the machine</h3>}

Run the following commands: 

```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y \
    libcurl4 \
    libpython3.12 \
    libssl-dev \
    openssl \
    build-essential \
    cmake \
    curl \
    g++ \
    python3 \
    python3-pip \
    python3-setuptools \
    python3-dev \
    clang \
    git \
    pkg-config \
    uuid-dev \
    libxmlsec1-dev xmlsec1 \
    --no-install-recommends 
```

{<h3 className="custom-header">Download the MAGE source code</h3>}

Clone the [MAGE source code](https://github.com/memgraph/mage) from GitHub:

```
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/memgraph/mage.git && cd mage
```

{<h3 className="custom-header">Set up the toolchain</h3>}

Download and install the [Memgraph Toolchain](https://memgraph.com/docs/getting-started/build-memgraph-from-source#toolchain-installation-procedure):
```bash
curl -L https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/deps.memgraph.io/toolchain-v6/toolchain-v6-binaries-ubuntu-24.04-amd64.tar.gz -o toolchain.tar.gz
sudo tar xzvfm toolchain.tar.gz -C /opt
```

Install runtime dependencies for the toolchain:
```bash
cd mage
sudo .cpp/memgraph/environment/os/install_deps.sh install TOOLCHAIN_RUN_DEPS
```

{<h3 className="custom-header">Install Rust and Python dependencies</h3>}

Run the following command to install Rust and Python dependencies:

```shell
curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh -s -- -y 
export PATH="/root/.cargo/bin:${PATH}" 
python3 -m pip install -r python/requirements.txt 
python3 -m pip install -r cpp/memgraph/src/auth/reference_modules/requirements.txt
python3 -m pip install torch-sparse torch-cluster torch-spline-conv torch-geometric torch-scatter -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-2.3.0+cpu.html
python3 -m pip install dgl -f https://data.dgl.ai/wheels/torch-2.3/repo.html
```

{<h3 className="custom-header">Run the `setup` script</h3>}

Run the following command: 

```shell
source /opt/toolchain-v6/activate
python3 setup build
sudo cp -r dist/* /usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules
```

<Callout type="info">

If you don't need all of the algorithms you can build only some of them based on the laguauge.

To build C++ based algorithms run:

```shell
python3 setup build --lang cpp
```

To build Python based algorithms run:

```shell
python3 setup build --lang python
```

</Callout>

The script will generate a `dist` directory with all the needed files.

It will also copy the contents of the newly created `dist` directory to
`/usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules`. Memgraph loads algorithms and modules from
this directory. 

If something isn't installed properly, the `setup` script will stop the
installation process. If you have any questions, contact us on
**[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph).**

{<h3 className="custom-header">Start a Memgraph instance</h3>}

Algorithms and query modules will be loaded into a Memgraph instance on startup

If your instance was already running you will need to execute the following
query to load them:

```
CALL mg.load_all();
```

If your changes are not loaded, make sure to restart the instance by running
`systemctl stop memgraph` and `systemctl start memgraph`.

</Steps>

Commit message:

update MAGE tag info (#1242)
Co-authored-by: Matea Pesic <80577904+matea16@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/advanced-algorithms/install-mage.mdx, after:

---
title: Install MAGE graph algorithm library
description: Learn how to install Memgraph and explore the wide range of algorithms available through MAGE, enabling you to unlock valuable insights from your graph data.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Install MAGE graph algorithm library

Use MAGE with an instance installed within a [Docker container](#docker) or on
[Linux](#linux). 

## Docker

[Install Memgraph with Docker](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker) using
`memgraph-platform` or `memgraph-mage` images which include the MAGE library so
no additional installation is required to run the graph algorithms on your
data. 

<Callout type="info">

You can download a specific version of MAGE

For example, if you want to download version `3.2`, you should run the following
command:

```shell
docker run -p 7687:7687 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-mage:3.2
```

The following tags are available on Docker Hub:
- `x.y` - production MAGE image
- `x.y-relwithdebinfo` - contains debugging symbols and `gdb`
- `x.y-malloc` - Memgraph compiled with `malloc`instead of `jemalloc` (x86_64 only)

For versions prior to `3.2`, MAGE image tags included both MAGE and Memgraph versions, e.g.

```shell
docker run -p 7687:7687 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-mage:3.1.1-memgraph-3.1.1
```

A `no-ml` image (e.g. `3.1.1-memgraph-3.1.1-no-ml`) was also provided, but this has now been 
discontinued as of `3.2` onwards.


</Callout>

## Linux

Follow the steps if you want to use the MAGE library with [installed Linux based
Memgraph package](/getting-started/install-memgraph). 

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Make sure the instance is not running</h3>}

Algorithms and query modules will be loaded into a Memgraph instance on startup
once you install MAGE, so make sure your instances are not running. 

{<h3 className="custom-header">Install dependencies</h3>}

To build from source, you will need:
- Python3
- Make
- CMake
- Clang
- UUID 
- [Rust and Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/getting-started/installation.html)

{<h3 className="custom-header">Set up the machine</h3>}

Run the following commands: 

```bash
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y \
    libcurl4 \
    libpython3.12 \
    libssl-dev \
    openssl \
    build-essential \
    cmake \
    curl \
    g++ \
    python3 \
    python3-pip \
    python3-setuptools \
    python3-dev \
    clang \
    git \
    pkg-config \
    uuid-dev \
    libxmlsec1-dev xmlsec1 \
    --no-install-recommends 
```

{<h3 className="custom-header">Download the MAGE source code</h3>}

Clone the [MAGE source code](https://github.com/memgraph/mage) from GitHub:

```
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/memgraph/mage.git && cd mage
```

{<h3 className="custom-header">Set up the toolchain</h3>}

Download and install the [Memgraph Toolchain](https://memgraph.com/docs/getting-started/build-memgraph-from-source#toolchain-installation-procedure):
```bash
curl -L https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/deps.memgraph.io/toolchain-v6/toolchain-v6-binaries-ubuntu-24.04-amd64.tar.gz -o toolchain.tar.gz
sudo tar xzvfm toolchain.tar.gz -C /opt
```

Install runtime dependencies for the toolchain:
```bash
cd mage
sudo .cpp/memgraph/environment/os/install_deps.sh install TOOLCHAIN_RUN_DEPS
```

{<h3 className="custom-header">Install Rust and Python dependencies</h3>}

Run the following command to install Rust and Python dependencies:

```shell
curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh -s -- -y 
export PATH="/root/.cargo/bin:${PATH}" 
python3 -m pip install -r python/requirements.txt 
python3 -m pip install -r cpp/memgraph/src/auth/reference_modules/requirements.txt
python3 -m pip install torch-sparse torch-cluster torch-spline-conv torch-geometric torch-scatter -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-2.3.0+cpu.html
python3 -m pip install dgl -f https://data.dgl.ai/wheels/torch-2.3/repo.html
```

{<h3 className="custom-header">Run the `setup` script</h3>}

Run the following command: 

```shell
source /opt/toolchain-v6/activate
python3 setup build
sudo cp -r dist/* /usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules
```

<Callout type="info">

If you don't need all of the algorithms you can build only some of them based on the laguauge.

To build C++ based algorithms run:

```shell
python3 setup build --lang cpp
```

To build Python based algorithms run:

```shell
python3 setup build --lang python
```

</Callout>

The script will generate a `dist` directory with all the needed files.

It will also copy the contents of the newly created `dist` directory to
`/usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules`. Memgraph loads algorithms and modules from
this directory. 

If something isn't installed properly, the `setup` script will stop the
installation process. If you have any questions, contact us on
**[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph).**

{<h3 className="custom-header">Start a Memgraph instance</h3>}

Algorithms and query modules will be loaded into a Memgraph instance on startup

If your instance was already running you will need to execute the following
query to load them:

```
CALL mg.load_all();
```

If your changes are not loaded, make sure to restart the instance by running
`systemctl stop memgraph` and `systemctl start memgraph`.

</Steps>
