pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx.md, before:

# Utilize the NetworkX library with Memgraph

NetworkX is a Python package for the creation, manipulation, and study of the
structure, dynamics, and functions of complex networks. Memgraph has
[**`nxalg`**](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/nxalg) query module,
which is a wrapper around NetworkX graph algorithms. It also provides **[Graph
Analyzer](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/graph_analyzer)** query
module, which utilizes the NetworkX library. Besides that, you can create a
custom query module that uses the NetworkX library. Through this how-to guide,
you can find out:

- [**How to run NetworkX algorithms in Memgraph
  Lab**](#how-to-run-networkx-algorithms-in-memgraph-lab)
- [**How to implement custom NetworkX
  module**](#how-to-implement-custom-networkx-module)


## How to run NetworkX algorithms in Memgraph Lab

NetworkX algorithms are integrated into Memgraph as query modules inside
Memgraph’s open-source graph extension library
[MAGE](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage). 

It is used within queries the same way all the other query modules from the MAGE
library are, [by using the `CALL` clause](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms). 

This how-to guide will show one simple example of calling a NetworkX procedure
in Memgraph's visual interface Memgraph Lab. 

### 1. Connect to Memgraph

First, run Memgraph using the Memgraph Platform Docker image, which includes
both the MAGE library and Memgraph Lab. To run the image, open a command-line
interpreter and run the following Docker command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform:latest
```

Connect to Memgraph via [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization) which is running at `localhost:3000`. 

Check out the [installation guide](/getting-started/install-memgraph) for other
installation options. If you wish to avoid the installation, you can also use
[Memgraph Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud).

### 2. Load the dataset

Head over to the **Datasets** section to load a dataset and load the **Europe
backpacking dataset**. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-1.png)

### 3. Run NetworkX algorithm

Once the dataset is loaded, go to the **Query Modules** section and search for
`nxalg` module. Click on the arrow next to the module name to **view module
details**. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-2.png)

The goal is to run the
[`is_bipartite()`](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/nxalg#is_bipartite) procedure
to check whether the graph is bipartite. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-3.png)

Copy the query, go to the **Query Execution** tab and paste the query into the
**Cypher Editor**:

```cypher 
CALL nxalg.is_bipartite() YIELD is_bipartite;
```

By clicking on the **Run Query** button, you can see that the Europe backpacking
graph is not bipartite.

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-4.png)

In the same way, you can run other procedures from the `nxalg` module and the
procedures from the `graph_analyzer` module, which can be found in the **Query
Modules** section.

## How to implement custom NetworkX module in Memgraph Lab

Besides using already implemented modules, you can [create your own
module](/custom-query-modules/python) which utilizes the NetworkX library.

Since Memgraph is integrated with NetworkX, you can import NetworkX library
inside Python code. This guide will show you how to create a new query module
that utilizes the NetworkX library within Memgraph's visual interface Memgraph
Lab.

### 1. Connect to Memgraph

First, run Memgraph using the Memgraph Platform Docker image, which includes
both the MAGE library and Memgraph Lab. To run the image, open a command-line
interpreter and run the following Docker command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform:latest
```

Connect to Memgraph via [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization) which is running at
`localhost:3000`. 

Check out the [installation guide](/getting-started/install-memgraph) for other
installation options. If you wish to avoid the installation, you can also use
[Memgraph Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud).

### 2. Load the dataset

In the **Datasets** section, find and load the Karate club friendship network
dataset. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-5.png)

### 3. Implement a custom query module

Once the dataset is loaded, go to the **Query modules** section. The goal is to
create a community detection algorithm that can partition a network into
multiple communities with the help of the NetworkX library. Click on the **New
Module** and type in the module name, e.g., `communities`. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-6.png)

There is a sample Python code on the next screen, inside the code editor. Select
it, delete it and paste the following code:

```python
import mgp
import networkx as nx
from networkx.algorithms import community
from mgp_networkx import MemgraphDiGraph


@mgp.read_proc
def detect(
    ctx: mgp.ProcCtx
    ) -> mgp.Record(communities=mgp.List[mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]]):

    networkxGraph = nx.DiGraph(MemgraphDiGraph(ctx=ctx))
    communities_generator = community.girvan_newman(networkxGraph)

    return mgp.Record(communities=[
        list(s) for s in next(communities_generator)])
```

In the above code we are creating a read procedure which creates a NetworkX
DiGraph from the MemgraphDiGraph object which takes the existing graph from the
database. After that, we run the Girvan-Newman community algorithm and return
its results.

Here is what the code looks like in the code editor:

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-7.png)

Click **Save & close**, and head over to the **Query Execution** tab. 

### 4. Run the custom query module

Copy and paste the following query to the **Cypher Editor**: 

```cypher
CALL communities.detect()
YIELD communities
UNWIND communities AS community
RETURN community;
```

After you click on **Run Query**, you can see the result, which consists of two
lists. Each list represents one community. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-8.png)


## Where to next?

If you want to learn more about using Memgraph with NetworkX, check out the
[**Memgraph for NetworkX developers
resources**](https://memgraph.com/memgraph-for-networkx?utm_source=networkx-guide&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=networkx_ppp&utm_term=docs%2Bhowtoutilize&utm_content=resources).

Commit message:

Add title metadata to the pages

pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx.md, after:

---
title: Utilize the NetworkX library with Memgraph
description: 
---

# Utilize the NetworkX library with Memgraph

NetworkX is a Python package for the creation, manipulation, and study of the
structure, dynamics, and functions of complex networks. Memgraph has
[**`nxalg`**](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/nxalg) query module,
which is a wrapper around NetworkX graph algorithms. It also provides **[Graph
Analyzer](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/graph_analyzer)** query
module, which utilizes the NetworkX library. Besides that, you can create a
custom query module that uses the NetworkX library. Through this how-to guide,
you can find out:

- [**How to run NetworkX algorithms in Memgraph
  Lab**](#how-to-run-networkx-algorithms-in-memgraph-lab)
- [**How to implement custom NetworkX
  module**](#how-to-implement-custom-networkx-module)


## How to run NetworkX algorithms in Memgraph Lab

NetworkX algorithms are integrated into Memgraph as query modules inside
Memgraph’s open-source graph extension library
[MAGE](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage). 

It is used within queries the same way all the other query modules from the MAGE
library are, [by using the `CALL` clause](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms). 

This how-to guide will show one simple example of calling a NetworkX procedure
in Memgraph's visual interface Memgraph Lab. 

### 1. Connect to Memgraph

First, run Memgraph using the Memgraph Platform Docker image, which includes
both the MAGE library and Memgraph Lab. To run the image, open a command-line
interpreter and run the following Docker command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform:latest
```

Connect to Memgraph via [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization) which is running at `localhost:3000`. 

Check out the [installation guide](/getting-started/install-memgraph) for other
installation options. If you wish to avoid the installation, you can also use
[Memgraph Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud).

### 2. Load the dataset

Head over to the **Datasets** section to load a dataset and load the **Europe
backpacking dataset**. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-1.png)

### 3. Run NetworkX algorithm

Once the dataset is loaded, go to the **Query Modules** section and search for
`nxalg` module. Click on the arrow next to the module name to **view module
details**. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-2.png)

The goal is to run the
[`is_bipartite()`](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/nxalg#is_bipartite) procedure
to check whether the graph is bipartite. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-3.png)

Copy the query, go to the **Query Execution** tab and paste the query into the
**Cypher Editor**:

```cypher 
CALL nxalg.is_bipartite() YIELD is_bipartite;
```

By clicking on the **Run Query** button, you can see that the Europe backpacking
graph is not bipartite.

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-4.png)

In the same way, you can run other procedures from the `nxalg` module and the
procedures from the `graph_analyzer` module, which can be found in the **Query
Modules** section.

## How to implement custom NetworkX module in Memgraph Lab

Besides using already implemented modules, you can [create your own
module](/custom-query-modules/python) which utilizes the NetworkX library.

Since Memgraph is integrated with NetworkX, you can import NetworkX library
inside Python code. This guide will show you how to create a new query module
that utilizes the NetworkX library within Memgraph's visual interface Memgraph
Lab.

### 1. Connect to Memgraph

First, run Memgraph using the Memgraph Platform Docker image, which includes
both the MAGE library and Memgraph Lab. To run the image, open a command-line
interpreter and run the following Docker command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform:latest
```

Connect to Memgraph via [Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization) which is running at
`localhost:3000`. 

Check out the [installation guide](/getting-started/install-memgraph) for other
installation options. If you wish to avoid the installation, you can also use
[Memgraph Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud).

### 2. Load the dataset

In the **Datasets** section, find and load the Karate club friendship network
dataset. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-5.png)

### 3. Implement a custom query module

Once the dataset is loaded, go to the **Query modules** section. The goal is to
create a community detection algorithm that can partition a network into
multiple communities with the help of the NetworkX library. Click on the **New
Module** and type in the module name, e.g., `communities`. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-6.png)

There is a sample Python code on the next screen, inside the code editor. Select
it, delete it and paste the following code:

```python
import mgp
import networkx as nx
from networkx.algorithms import community
from mgp_networkx import MemgraphDiGraph


@mgp.read_proc
def detect(
    ctx: mgp.ProcCtx
    ) -> mgp.Record(communities=mgp.List[mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]]):

    networkxGraph = nx.DiGraph(MemgraphDiGraph(ctx=ctx))
    communities_generator = community.girvan_newman(networkxGraph)

    return mgp.Record(communities=[
        list(s) for s in next(communities_generator)])
```

In the above code we are creating a read procedure which creates a NetworkX
DiGraph from the MemgraphDiGraph object which takes the existing graph from the
database. After that, we run the Girvan-Newman community algorithm and return
its results.

Here is what the code looks like in the code editor:

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-7.png)

Click **Save & close**, and head over to the **Query Execution** tab. 

### 4. Run the custom query module

Copy and paste the following query to the **Cypher Editor**: 

```cypher
CALL communities.detect()
YIELD communities
UNWIND communities AS community
RETURN community;
```

After you click on **Run Query**, you can see the result, which consists of two
lists. Each list represents one community. 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/utilize-networkx/nxalg-how-to-8.png)


## Where to next?

If you want to learn more about using Memgraph with NetworkX, check out the
[**Memgraph for NetworkX developers
resources**](https://memgraph.com/memgraph-for-networkx?utm_source=networkx-guide&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=networkx_ppp&utm_term=docs%2Bhowtoutilize&utm_content=resources).
