pages/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations.mdx, before:

---
title: Auth system integrations
description: Learn how to integrate with third-party auth systems. Manage user authentication and access control in Memgraph using the Auth module. Get improved security and control in your graph computing environment.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Auth system integrations (Enterprise)

Memgraph supports authentication and (optional) authorization using a **custom
built external auth module**. The two supported operation modes are:
- [DEPRECATED] authentication only (username/password verification)
- authentication and authorization (username/password verification and user to
  role mapping)

When a user connects to Memgraph, the database will forward the user's supplied
username and password to the external auth module and wait for it to deliver
the authentication and authorization verdict back to the database. Based on
the returned verdict, Memgraph will either close the connection to the
connected user or will allow the connection and associate the connection 
with the appropriate role.

When Memgraph is switched to use the external auth module for authentication
its internal users are automatically disabled. All users are authenticated only
using the module, existing local users are ignored. In order to authorize query 
execution, the auth module must return a role associated with the user. This 
role must be registered locally on Memgraph.

As this is an Enterprise feature, once the Memgraph Enterprise license expires,
newly created users will be granted all privileges. The existing users'
privileges will still apply but you won't be able to manage them.

## Configuration flags

Use the following configuration flags to configure the external auth module
authentication and authorization mechanisms used by Memgraph.

 Flag                               | Description
------------------------------------|------------
 `--auth-module-executable`         | [DEPRECATED] Path to the executable that should be used for user authentication/authorization.
 `--auth-module-timeout-ms`         | Specifies the maximum time that Memgraph will wait for a response from the external auth module.
 `--auth-password-permit-null`      | Can be set to false to disable null passwords.
 `--auth-password-strength-regex`   | The regular expression that should be used to match the entire entered password to ensure its strength.

## Communication

Memgraph uses inter-process pipes to communicate with the module. The module
will receive auth requests on file descriptor `1000` and has to return auth
responses to file descriptor `1001`. The standard streams (`stdin` and `stdout`)
aren't used because external libraries often tend to write something to `stdout`
which is difficult to disable. By using separate file descriptors, `stdout` is
left intact and can be used freely for debugging purposes (along with `stderr`).

The protocol used between Memgraph and the module is as follows:
 - Each auth request is sent as a JSON encoded object in a single line that is
   terminated by a `\n`.
 - Each auth response must be sent as a JSON encoded object in a single line
   that is terminated by a `\n`.
 - Auth requests are objects that contain the following keys:
   - `username` - the user's username
   - `password` - the user's password
 - Auth responses must be objects that contain the following keys:
   - `authenticated` - a `bool` indicating whether the user is allowed to log
     in to the database
   - `role` - a `string` indicating which role the user should have (must be
     supplied)

If the external auth module crashes during the processing of an auth request,
Memgraph won't allow the user to log in to the database and will automatically
restart the auth module for the next auth request. All crash logs will be seen
in Memgraph's output (typically in `systemd` logs using `journalctl`).

## Example

This very simple example auth module is written in Python, but any programming
language can be used.

```python
#!/usr/bin/python3
import json
import io


def authenticate(username, password):
    return {"authenticated": True, "role": "moderator"}


if __name__ == "__main__":
    input_stream = io.FileIO(1000, mode="r")
    output_stream = io.FileIO(1001, mode="w")
    while True:
        params = json.loads(input_stream.readline().decode("ascii"))
        ret = authenticate(**params)
        output_stream.write((json.dumps(ret) + "\n").encode("ascii"))
```

In the example you can see how the communication protocol works and you can see
the function that is used for authentication (and authorization). When writing
your own modules you have to reimplement the `authenticate` function according
to your needs.

Because the authentication (and authorization) function has a simple signature,
it is easy (and recommended) to write unit (or integration) tests in separate
files. For example:

```python
#!/usr/bin/python3
import module

assert module.authenticate("sponge", "bob") == {"authenticated": True, "role": "analyst"}
assert module.authenticate("CHUCK", "NORRIS") == {"authenticated": True, "role": "admin"}
```

## LDAP

Memgraph also supports authentication and authorization using LDAP with a
built-in auth module that is packaged with Memgraph Enterprise.

The module supports two operation modes:
- authentication only (LDAP bind request)
- authentication and authorization (LDAP bind and search requests)

### Authentication mode

When using LDAP authentication the module builds the DN used for authentication
using the user specified username and the following formula:

```plaintext
DN = prefix + username + suffix
```

In most common situations the `prefix` will be `cn=` and the `suffix` will be
`,dc=example,dc=com`. With an example username `alice` that would yield a DN
equal to `cn=alice,dc=example,dc=com` which will then be used for the LDAP bind
operation with the user specified password.

### Authorization mode

Authentication is performed in the same way as described above. After the user is
authenticated, the module searches through the role mapping root DN object that
contains role mappings. A role mapping object that has the current bound user
as its `member` attribute is used as the user's role. The role that is mapped
to the user is the `CN` attribute of the role mapping object.  The attribute
that contains the user DN in the mapping object, as well as the attribute that
contains the role name, can be changed in the module configuration file to
accommodate your LDAP schema.

When searching for a role in directories that have thousands of roles,
the search process could take some time, causing long login times.

### Module requirements

The module is written in Python 3 and it must be installed on the server. The
Python version should be at least `3.5`.  Also, you must have the following
Python 3 libraries installed:
 - `ldap3` - used to communicate with the LDAP server.
 - `PyYAML` - used to parse the configuration file.

### Module configuration

The module configuration file is located at
`/etc/memgraph/auth_module/ldap.yaml`.  An initial example configuration file
that has all settings documented and explained is located at
`/etc/memgraph/auth_module/ldap.example.yaml`. For quick setup, you can copy the example
configuration file into the module configuration file.

### Database configuration

In order to enable the use of the LDAP authentication and authorization module
you have to set the flag `--auth-module-executable` to use
`/usr/lib/memgraph/auth_module/ldap.py`.

Other [flags](#configuration-flags) that change the behavior of the database to
module integration can be specified according to your needs.

### Example

Organizations typically use an LDAP server to hold and manage the permissions.
Because LDAP servers are already set-up in most large organizations, it is
convenient for the organization to allow all staff members to have access to the
database using the already available centralized user management system.

For this guide let's assume that we have an LDAP server that is serving the
following data:

```plaintext
# Users root entry
dn: ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: organizationalUnit
objectclass: top
ou: people

# User dba
dn: cn=dba,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: dba
objectclass: person
objectclass: top
sn: user
userpassword: dba

# User alice
dn: cn=alice,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: alice
objectclass: person
objectclass: top
sn: user
userpassword: alice

# User carol
dn: cn=carol,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: carol
objectclass: person
objectclass: top
sn: user
userpassword: carol

# User dave
dn: cn=dave,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: dave
objectclass: person
objectclass: top
sn: user
userpassword: dave

# Roles root entry
dn: ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: organizationalUnit
objectclass: top
ou: roles

# Role superuser
dn: cn=superuser,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: superuser
member: cn=dba,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: groupOfNames
objectclass: top

# Role moderator
dn: cn=moderator,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: moderator
member: cn=alice,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: groupOfNames
objectclass: top

# Role admin
dn: cn=admin,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: admin
member: cn=carol,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
member: cn=dave,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: groupOfNames
objectclass: top
```

To summarize, the dataset contains the following data:
- `ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - entry that holds all users.
  - `cn=dba,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - user `dba` that will be used as the database administrator.
  - `cn=alice,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - regular user `alice`.
  - `cn=carol,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - regular user `carol`.
  - `cn=dave,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - regular user `dave`.
- `ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - entry that holds all roles.
  - `cn=moderator,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - role `moderator` that has `alice` as its member.
  - `cn=admin,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - role `admin` that has `carol` and `dave` as its members.

#### Authentication

<Steps>

{<h3> Run Memgraph </h3>}

Firs, prepare Memgraph for the integration with LDAP. [Run a Memgraph
instance](/getting-started) without any users in its local authentication
storage. For more details on how the native authentication storage works in
Memgraph check [user privileges](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control).

{<h3> Create an administrator </h3>}

When using the module, all users are handled by the auth module and no user 
information is stored locally in Memgraph. In order to allow user login, the
corresponding roles need to be defined locally.

```cypher
CREATE ROLE superuser;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES TO superuser;
```

Once the role has been created and all privileges granted, it's safe to
disconnect from the database and proceed with the LDAP integration.

{<h3> Enable LDAP integration </h3>}

To enable LDAP integration specify the following flag:

```plaintext
--auth-module-executable=/usr/lib/memgraph/auth_module/ldap.py
```

Also, add the following LDAP module configuration to
`/etc/memgraph/auth_module/ldap.yaml`:

```yaml
server:
  host: "<LDAP_SERVER_HOSTNAME>"
  port: <LDAP_SERVER_PORT>
  encryption: "disabled"
  cert_file: ""
  key_file: ""
  ca_file: ""
  validate_cert: false

users:
  prefix: "cn="
  suffix: ",ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com"

roles:
  root_dn: ""
  root_objectclass: ""
  user_attribute: ""
  role_attribute: ""
```

Adjust the security settings according to your LDAP server security
settings.

Once all the configuration options are set, restart the Memgraph database
instance.

{<h3> Check the integration </h3>}

Verify that you can log into the database using the username `dba` and password
`dba`. It will confirm that the LDAP authentication is successfully enabled. 

{<h3> Log in other users </h3>}

User `alice` should be able to log in with password `alice`. 
The administrator `dba` should modify Alice's role's privileges to include the 
`MATCH` privilege using the following query:

```cypher
GRANT MATCH TO moderator;
```

Once Alice logs in the second time, she should be able to execute the following
query:

```cypher
MATCH (n) RETURN n;
```

If the `dba` runs the `SHOW USERS;` query, it won't return any users, since all 
users are managed by the auth module.

Users Bob, Carol and Dave will also be able to log in to the database using
their LDAP password.

</Steps>

#### Authorization

<Steps>

{<h3> Enable role mapping </h3>}

To enable role mapping for the described LDAP schema, modify the LDAP auth
module configuration file, specifically the section `roles`, by adding the
following content:

```yaml
roles:
  root_dn: "ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com"
  root_objectclass: "groupOfNames"
  user_attribute: "member"
  role_attribute: "cn"
```

This configuration tells the LDAP module that all role mapping entries are
children of the `ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` entry, that the children have
user DNs specified in their `member` attribute and that the `cn` attribute
should be used to determine the role name.

When a user logs in to the database, the LDAP auth module will go through all
role mapping entries and will try to find out which role mapping entry has the
user as its member.

So now when Alice logs in, the LDAP auth module will go through the following
entries: `cn=admin,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` and
`cn=moderator,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com`. Because Alice is a member of the
`moderator` role mapping, the LDAP auth module will assign role moderator to
Alice.

{<h3> Adjust permissions </h3>}

Permissions for users and roles are still managed through Memgraph, they can't
be managed through the LDAP server.

The database administrator (user `dba`) now has to explicitly create the role
the users have so they will be able to log into the database:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE moderator;
```

In this scenario Alice and Bob will be able to log in. Alice will be
allowed to log in because her role (moderator) already exists. Carol and Dave 
won't be allowed to log in because their role (administrator) doesn't exist.

</Steps>

Commit message:

Update general (other than the SAML modules) auth functionalities

pages/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations.mdx, after:

---
title: Auth system integrations
description: Learn how to integrate with third-party auth systems. Manage user authentication and access control in Memgraph using the Auth module. Get improved security and control in your graph computing environment.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Auth system integrations (Enterprise)

Memgraph supports authentication and (optional) authorization using a **custom
built external auth module**. The two supported operation modes are:
- [DEPRECATED] authentication only (username/password verification)
- authentication and authorization (username/password verification and user to
  role mapping)

When a user connects to Memgraph, the database will forward the user's supplied
username and password to the external auth module and wait for it to deliver
the authentication and authorization verdict back to the database. Based on
the returned verdict, Memgraph will either close the connection to the
connected user or will allow the connection and associate the connection 
with the appropriate role.

When Memgraph is switched to use the external auth module for authentication
its internal users are automatically disabled. All users are authenticated only
using the module, existing local users are ignored. In order to authorize query 
execution, the auth module must return a role associated with the user. This 
role must be registered locally on Memgraph.

As this is an Enterprise feature, once the Memgraph Enterprise license expires,
newly created users will be granted all privileges. The existing users'
privileges will still apply but you won't be able to manage them.

## Configuration flags

Use the following configuration flags to configure the external auth module
authentication and authorization mechanisms used by Memgraph.

 Flag                               | Description
------------------------------------|------------
 `--auth-module-mappings`           | Associates auth schemes to external modules. A mapping is structured as follows: `<scheme>:<absolute path to module>` and individual entries are separated with `;`. If the mapping contains whitespace, enclose the flag value with quotation marks.
 `--auth-module-executable`         | [DEPRECATED] Path to the executable that should be used for user authentication/authorization. Superseded by `--auth-module-mappings=basic` from Memgraph 2.18.
 `--auth-module-timeout-ms`         | Specifies the maximum time that Memgraph will wait for a response from the external auth module.
 `--auth-password-permit-null`      | Can be set to false to disable null passwords.
 `--auth-password-strength-regex`   | The regular expression that should be used to match the entire entered password to ensure its strength.

Auth schemes supported by Memgraph out-of-the-box have default module paths. To
enable them, you don’t need to specify the auth module path, e.g.
`--auth-module-mappings=basic;saml-entra-id;oidc-okta`. This applies to the
following schemes:

* `basic` (username + password authentication)
* `saml-entra-id`
* `saml-okta`
* `oidc-entra-id`
* `oidc-okta`

## Communication

Memgraph uses inter-process pipes to communicate with the module. The module
will receive auth requests on file descriptor `1000` and has to return auth
responses to file descriptor `1001`. The standard streams (`stdin` and `stdout`)
aren't used because external libraries often tend to write something to `stdout`
which is difficult to disable. By using separate file descriptors, `stdout` is
left intact and can be used freely for debugging purposes (along with `stderr`).

The protocol used between Memgraph and the module is as follows:
 - Each auth request is sent as a JSON encoded object in a single line that is
   terminated by a `\n`.
 - Each auth response must be sent as a JSON encoded object in a single line
   that is terminated by a `\n`.
 - Auth requests are objects that contain the following fields:
   - `basic` auth scheme:
    - `username` - the user's username
    - `password` - the user's password
   - other auth schemes:
    - `scheme` - the string containing the scheme
    - `response` - the authentication response (e.g. SAML response or JWT)
 - Auth responses must be objects that contain the following fields:
   - `authenticated` - a `bool` indicating whether the user is allowed to log
     in to the database
   - `role` - a `string` indicating which role the user should have (must be
     supplied)
   - `errors` (optional) - if `authenticated` is false, Memgraph will put up a
     warning with the error message returned by the module

If the external auth module crashes during the processing of an auth request,
Memgraph won't allow the user to log in to the database and will automatically
restart the auth module for the next auth request. All crash logs will be seen
in Memgraph's output (typically in `systemd` logs using `journalctl`).

## Example

This very simple example auth module is written in Python, but any programming
language can be used.

```python
#!/usr/bin/python3
import json
import io


def authenticate(username, password):
    return {"authenticated": True, "role": "moderator"}


if __name__ == "__main__":
    input_stream = io.FileIO(1000, mode="r")
    output_stream = io.FileIO(1001, mode="w")
    while True:
        params = json.loads(input_stream.readline().decode("ascii"))
        ret = authenticate(**params)
        output_stream.write((json.dumps(ret) + "\n").encode("ascii"))
```

In the example you can see how the communication protocol works and you can see
the function that is used for authentication (and authorization). When writing
your own modules, you have to reimplement the `authenticate` function according
to your needs.

Because the authentication (and authorization) function has a simple signature,
it is easy (and recommended) to write unit (or integration) tests in separate
files. For example:

```python
#!/usr/bin/python3
import module

assert module.authenticate("sponge", "bob") == {"authenticated": True, "role": "analyst"}
assert module.authenticate("CHUCK", "NORRIS") == {"authenticated": True, "role": "admin"}
```

## LDAP

Memgraph also supports authentication and authorization using LDAP with a
built-in auth module that is packaged with Memgraph Enterprise.

The module supports two operation modes:
- authentication only (LDAP bind request)
- authentication and authorization (LDAP bind and search requests)

### Authentication mode

When using LDAP authentication the module builds the DN used for authentication
using the user specified username and the following formula:

```plaintext
DN = prefix + username + suffix
```

In most common situations the `prefix` will be `cn=` and the `suffix` will be
`,dc=example,dc=com`. With an example username `alice` that would yield a DN
equal to `cn=alice,dc=example,dc=com` which will then be used for the LDAP bind
operation with the user specified password.

### Authorization mode

Authentication is performed in the same way as described above. After the user is
authenticated, the module searches through the role mapping root DN object that
contains role mappings. A role mapping object that has the current bound user
as its `member` attribute is used as the user's role. The role that is mapped
to the user is the `CN` attribute of the role mapping object.  The attribute
that contains the user DN in the mapping object, as well as the attribute that
contains the role name, can be changed in the module configuration file to
accommodate your LDAP schema.

When searching for a role in directories that have thousands of roles,
the search process could take some time, causing long login times.

### Module requirements

The module is written in Python 3 and it must be installed on the server. The
Python version should be at least `3.5`.  Also, you must have the following
Python 3 libraries installed:
 - `ldap3` - used to communicate with the LDAP server.
 - `PyYAML` - used to parse the configuration file.

### Module configuration

The module configuration file is located at
`/etc/memgraph/auth_module/ldap.yaml`.  An initial example configuration file
that has all settings documented and explained is located at
`/etc/memgraph/auth_module/ldap.example.yaml`. For quick setup, you can copy the example
configuration file into the module configuration file.

### Database configuration

In order to enable the use of the LDAP authentication and authorization module
you have to set the following flag: `--auth-module-mappings=basic`.

Other [flags](#configuration-flags) that change the behavior of the database to
module integration can be specified according to your needs.

### Example

Organizations typically use an LDAP server to hold and manage the permissions.
Because LDAP servers are already set-up in most large organizations, it is
convenient for the organization to allow all staff members to have access to the
database using the already available centralized user management system.

For this guide let's assume that we have an LDAP server that is serving the
following data:

```plaintext
# Users root entry
dn: ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: organizationalUnit
objectclass: top
ou: people

# User dba
dn: cn=dba,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: dba
objectclass: person
objectclass: top
sn: user
userpassword: dba

# User alice
dn: cn=alice,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: alice
objectclass: person
objectclass: top
sn: user
userpassword: alice

# User carol
dn: cn=carol,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: carol
objectclass: person
objectclass: top
sn: user
userpassword: carol

# User dave
dn: cn=dave,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: dave
objectclass: person
objectclass: top
sn: user
userpassword: dave

# Roles root entry
dn: ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: organizationalUnit
objectclass: top
ou: roles

# Role superuser
dn: cn=superuser,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: superuser
member: cn=dba,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: groupOfNames
objectclass: top

# Role moderator
dn: cn=moderator,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: moderator
member: cn=alice,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: groupOfNames
objectclass: top

# Role admin
dn: cn=admin,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com
cn: admin
member: cn=carol,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
member: cn=dave,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com
objectclass: groupOfNames
objectclass: top
```

To summarize, the dataset contains the following data:
- `ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - entry that holds all users.
  - `cn=dba,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - user `dba` that will be used as the database administrator.
  - `cn=alice,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - regular user `alice`.
  - `cn=carol,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - regular user `carol`.
  - `cn=dave,ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - regular user `dave`.
- `ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - entry that holds all roles.
  - `cn=moderator,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - role `moderator` that has `alice` as its member.
  - `cn=admin,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` - role `admin` that has `carol` and `dave` as its members.

#### Authentication

<Steps>

{<h3> Run Memgraph </h3>}

Firs, prepare Memgraph for the integration with LDAP. [Run a Memgraph
instance](/getting-started) without any users in its local authentication
storage. For more details on how the native authentication storage works in
Memgraph check [user privileges](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control).

{<h3> Create an administrator </h3>}

When using the module, all users are handled by the auth module and no user 
information is stored locally in Memgraph. In order to allow user login, the
corresponding roles need to be defined locally.

```cypher
CREATE ROLE superuser;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES TO superuser;
```

Once the role has been created and all privileges granted, it's safe to
disconnect from the database and proceed with the LDAP integration.

{<h3> Enable LDAP integration </h3>}

To enable LDAP integration specify the following flag:

```plaintext
--auth-module-mappings=basic
```

Also, add the following LDAP module configuration to
`/etc/memgraph/auth_module/ldap.yaml`:

```yaml
server:
  host: "<LDAP_SERVER_HOSTNAME>"
  port: <LDAP_SERVER_PORT>
  encryption: "disabled"
  cert_file: ""
  key_file: ""
  ca_file: ""
  validate_cert: false

users:
  prefix: "cn="
  suffix: ",ou=people,dc=memgraph,dc=com"

roles:
  root_dn: ""
  root_objectclass: ""
  user_attribute: ""
  role_attribute: ""
```

Adjust the security settings according to your LDAP server security
settings.

Once all the configuration options are set, restart the Memgraph database
instance.

{<h3> Check the integration </h3>}

Verify that you can log into the database using the username `dba` and password
`dba`. It will confirm that the LDAP authentication is successfully enabled. 

{<h3> Log in other users </h3>}

User `alice` should be able to log in with password `alice`. 
The administrator `dba` should modify Alice's role's privileges to include the 
`MATCH` privilege using the following query:

```cypher
GRANT MATCH TO moderator;
```

Once Alice logs in the second time, she should be able to execute the following
query:

```cypher
MATCH (n) RETURN n;
```

If the `dba` runs the `SHOW USERS;` query, it won't return any users, since all 
users are managed by the auth module.

Users Bob, Carol and Dave will also be able to log in to the database using
their LDAP password.

</Steps>

#### Authorization

<Steps>

{<h3> Enable role mapping </h3>}

To enable role mapping for the described LDAP schema, modify the LDAP auth
module configuration file, specifically the section `roles`, by adding the
following content:

```yaml
roles:
  root_dn: "ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com"
  root_objectclass: "groupOfNames"
  user_attribute: "member"
  role_attribute: "cn"
```

This configuration tells the LDAP module that all role mapping entries are
children of the `ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` entry, that the children have
user DNs specified in their `member` attribute and that the `cn` attribute
should be used to determine the role name.

When a user logs in to the database, the LDAP auth module will go through all
role mapping entries and will try to find out which role mapping entry has the
user as its member.

So now when Alice logs in, the LDAP auth module will go through the following
entries: `cn=admin,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com` and
`cn=moderator,ou=roles,dc=memgraph,dc=com`. Because Alice is a member of the
`moderator` role mapping, the LDAP auth module will assign role moderator to
Alice.

{<h3> Adjust permissions </h3>}

Permissions for users and roles are still managed through Memgraph, they can't
be managed through the LDAP server.

The database administrator (user `dba`) now has to explicitly create the role
the users have so they will be able to log into the database:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE moderator;
```

In this scenario Alice and Bob will be able to log in. Alice will be
allowed to log in because her role (moderator) already exists. Carol and Dave 
won't be allowed to log in because their role (administrator) doesn't exist.

</Steps>
