pages/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/multiple-roles.mdx, before:

---
title: Multi-role users and multi-tenant roles
description: Learn how users can have multiple roles and how to assign database-specific roles in multi-tenant environments with special permission filtering logic.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Multi-role users and multi-tenant roles (Enterprise)

**As of v3.5** Memgraph allows users to have multiple roles assigned to them
simultaneously. Memgraph Enterprise supports multi-tenant roles, which allow
users to have different roles assigned to them for specific databases. This
feature enables proper tenant isolation and fine-grained access control in
multi-tenant environments.

## Privileges with multiple roles

When a user has multiple roles, their privileges are combined according to the
following rules:

- **Grant**: If any assigned role with access to the database grants a
  privilege, the user is granted that privilege.
- **Deny**: If any assigned role with access to the database denies a privilege,
  the user is denied that privilege, even if another role grants it.
- **Effective privilege**: The user's effective privileges are the union of all
  granted privileges, minus any that are denied by any role.

This means that **deny always takes precedence over grant** when there is a
conflict. <br/>
**Note:** The resulting user privileges contain user's privileges only
if the user also has access to the database.

## Database access with users and roles

### Basic database access

In Memgraph Enterprise, both users and roles can have database access
permissions:

```cypher
-- Grant database access to a role
GRANT DATABASE db_name TO user_or_role;

-- Deny database access
DENY DATABASE db_name TO user_or_role;

-- Revoke database access
REVOKE DATABASE db_name TO user_or_role;
```

### How database access works

Database access follows these rules:
- **Grants**: If any role or user grants access to a database, database is
  granted
- **Denies**: If any role or user denies access to a database, database is
  denied
- **Access**: User or role has database access if it is granted and not denied


### Combining database access

When a user has multiple roles, their database access is combined from all
roles:

```cypher
-- Create roles with different database access
CREATE ROLE role1;
CREATE ROLE role2;

-- Grant different database access to each role
GRANT DATABASE db1 TO role1;
GRANT DATABASE db2 TO role2;

-- Create user and assign both roles
CREATE USER alice IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE FOR alice TO role1, role2;

-- Result: Alice has access to both db1 and db2
```

### Database access conflicts

When roles have conflicting database access, deny takes precedence:

```cypher
-- Role1 grants access to db1
GRANT DATABASE db1 TO role1;

-- Role2 denies access to db1
DENY DATABASE db1 TO role2;

-- User with both roles
SET ROLE FOR user TO role1, role2;

-- Result: User is denied access to db1 (deny takes precedence)
```

## Creating database-specific roles

### Using database access for tenant isolation

You can create roles that are specific to certain databases by controlling their
database access:

```cypher
-- Create tenant-specific roles
CREATE ROLE tenant1_admin;
CREATE ROLE tenant2_user;

-- Grant database access to specific tenants
GRANT DATABASE tenant1_db TO tenant1_admin;
GRANT DATABASE tenant2_db TO tenant2_user;

-- Grant appropriate permissions
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES TO tenant1_admin;
GRANT MATCH, CREATE, MERGE, SET TO tenant2_user;

-- Create user with both roles
CREATE USER bob IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE FOR bob TO tenant1_admin, tenant2_user;
```

### Limitations of this approach

While this approach works, it has some limitations:
- Users get access to all databases their roles have access to
- No fine-grained control over which role applies to which database
- Permission filtering is based on database access, not role assignment
- Admin needs to create a set of role for each database

## Better API: Database-specific role assignment

### Setting roles ON a database

Memgraph Enterprise provides a better API for database-specific role assignment
using the `ON database` clause:

```cypher
-- Assign role to specific database
SET ROLE FOR user_name TO role_name ON database_name;

-- Remove role from specific database
CLEAR ROLE FOR user_name ON database_name;

-- Remove all roles
CLEAR ROLES;
```

**Note:** Multiple roles can be specified on a database. However, the list of
roles needs to be exhaustive.

### How it works

This API provides true database-specific role assignment:

```cypher
-- Create roles with database access
CREATE ROLE tenant1_admin;
CREATE ROLE tenant2_user;

-- Grant database access to roles
GRANT DATABASE tenant1_db TO tenant1_admin;
GRANT DATABASE tenant2_db TO tenant2_user;

-- Grant permissions
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES TO tenant1_admin;
GRANT MATCH, CREATE, MERGE, SET TO tenant2_user;

-- Create user with database-specific roles
CREATE USER alice IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE FOR alice TO tenant1_admin ON tenant1_db;
SET ROLE FOR alice TO tenant2_user ON tenant2_db;
```

**Note:** The list of roles defined in the SET ROLE query is an exhaustive list.

### Special logic for database filtering

When using `SET ROLE ... ON database`, the system applies special logic:

1. **Database Access Check**: Only roles with access to the specified database
   can be assigned
2. **Permission Filtering**: When accessing a database, only roles assigned to
   that database are considered
3. **Isolation**: Users cannot access permissions from roles assigned to other
   databases
4. **Automatic Filtering**: The system automatically filters permissions based
   on the current database context

## Multi-tenant role management

### Adding database-specific roles

To assign a role to a user for a specific database:

```cypher
-- The role must have access to the database
GRANT DATABASE database_name TO role_name;
SET ROLE FOR user_name TO role_name ON database_name;
```

### Clearing database-specific roles

To remove a role from a specific database:

```cypher
CLEAR ROLE FOR user_name ON database_name;
```

### Viewing multi-tenant roles

**Note**: The `SHOW ROLE FOR USER` command does not require database
specification, even in multi-tenant environments. It will show all roles
assigned to the user across all databases.

```cypher
-- Show all roles for a user (works in all environments)
SHOW ROLE FOR user_name;
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name;
```

To see which roles a user has for a specific database:

```cypher
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name ON database_name;
```

In multi-tenant environments, you can also use these additional options:

1. **Show roles for the user's main database:**
```cypher
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name ON MAIN;
```

2. **Show roles for the current database:**
```cypher
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name ON CURRENT;
```

3. **Show roles for a specific database:**
```cypher
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name ON DATABASE database_name;
```

These commands return the aggregated roles for the user in the specified
database context.

### Viewing permissions for a specific database

To see what permissions a user has in a specific database:

```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_name ON database_name;
```

In multi-tenant environments, you can also use these additional options:

1. **Show privileges for the user's main database:**
```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_name ON MAIN;
```

2. **Show privileges for the current database:**
```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_name ON CURRENT;
```

3. **Show privileges for a specific database:**
```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_name ON DATABASE database_name;
```

These commands return the aggregated privileges for the user in the specified
database context.

### SSO integration with multi-tenant roles

When using external auth modules, users can be assigned multi-tenant roles based
on their identity provider roles:

```python
def authenticate(username, password):
    # Example: User has multiple roles from identity provider
    if username == "cross_tenant_manager" and password == "password":
        return {
            "authenticated": True,
            "roles": ["tenant1_admin", "tenant2_user"],
            "role_databases": ["tenant1_db", "tenant2_db"],
            "username": "cross_tenant_manager"
        }
    
    return {"authenticated": False, "errors": "Invalid credentials"}
```

## Database access control

### Main database selection

When a user has multi-tenant roles with access to different databases, the
system determines the main database:

```cypher
-- Create roles with different main databases
CREATE ROLE role1;
CREATE ROLE role2;
GRANT DATABASE db1 TO role1;
GRANT DATABASE db2 TO role2;
SET MAIN DATABASE db1 FOR role1;
SET MAIN DATABASE db2 FOR role2;

-- User with both roles
CREATE USER user1 IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE role1 FOR user1 ON db1;
SET ROLE role2 FOR user1 ON db2;

```

<Callout type="info"> 
    In case of an SSO connection, no user information is stored in Memgraph;
    instead the auth module returns roles associated with the connection. In
    this case, there are no guarantees which role's main database will be
    selected. Use "database" in the session arguments to define the target
    database. 
</Callout>

### Database-specific permission filtering

The special logic ensures that when accessing a specific database, only roles
assigned to that database are considered:

```cypher
-- Role with access to multiple databases
CREATE ROLE multi_db_role;
GRANT DATABASE db1 TO multi_db_role;
GRANT DATABASE db2 TO multi_db_role;
GRANT MATCH, CREATE ON db1 TO multi_db_role;
GRANT MATCH ON db2 TO multi_db_role;

-- User with this role
CREATE USER user1 IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE multi_db_role FOR user1 ON db1;
SET ROLE multi_db_role FOR user1 ON db2;

-- When accessing db1: has MATCH, CREATE
-- When accessing db2: has only MATCH
```

## Best practices for multi-tenant environments

1. **Use descriptive role names**: Include tenant information in role names
   (e.g., `tenant1_admin`, `tenant2_user`)
2. **Follow principle of least privilege**: Grant only necessary permissions to
   each role
3. **Separate tenant-specific roles**: Create distinct roles for each tenant to
   ensure proper isolation
4. **Test permission combinations**: Verify that multi-tenant permissions work
   correctly in each database
5. **Document role assignments**: Keep track of which users have which roles for
   which databases
6. **Use deny sparingly**: Remember that deny takes precedence over grant across
   all databases
7. **Treat memgraph database as admin database**: In multi-tenant environments,
   restrict access to the default "memgraph" database to privileged users only
8. **Ensure AUTH privilege access**: Users who need to perform
   authentication/authorization operations must have both the `AUTH` privilege
   and access to the "memgraph" database
9. **Ensure replication privilege access**: Users who need to perform
   replication operations must have both the `REPLICATION` privilege and access
   to the "memgraph" database
10. **Ensure multi-database privilege access**: Users who need to perform
    multi-database operations must have the appropriate privileges
    (`MULTI_DATABASE_USE`, `MULTI_DATABASE_EDIT`) and access to the "memgraph"
    database
11. **Separate application data**: Store all application data in tenant-specific
    databases, not in the default "memgraph" database
12. **Plan for administrative operations**: Design your role structure to ensure
    that users who need to manage users, roles, replication, or multi-database
    operations have appropriate access to the "memgraph" database
13. **Use explicit database context**: Use `ON MAIN` for the user's main database,
    `ON CURRENT` for the currently active database, or `ON DATABASE` for a
    specific database
14. **Verify permissions in context**: Always check roles and privileges in the
    specific database context where they will be used

Commit message:

bugfix: make it obvious that user-role maps are not updated (#1419)
Co-authored-by: Matea Pesic <80577904+matea16@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/multiple-roles.mdx, after:

---
title: Multi-role users and multi-tenant roles
description: Learn how users can have multiple roles and how to assign database-specific roles in multi-tenant environments with special permission filtering logic.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Multi-role users and multi-tenant roles (Enterprise)

**As of v3.5** Memgraph allows users to have multiple roles assigned to them
simultaneously. Memgraph Enterprise supports multi-tenant roles, which allow
users to have different roles assigned to them for specific databases. This
feature enables proper tenant isolation and fine-grained access control in
multi-tenant environments.

<Callout type="warning">

User-role mappings are simple maps located in the user. Deleting or renaming the database will not update this information. The admin needs to make sure the correct access is maintained at all times.

</Callout>

## Privileges with multiple roles

When a user has multiple roles, their privileges are combined according to the
following rules:

- **Grant**: If any assigned role with access to the database grants a
  privilege, the user is granted that privilege.
- **Deny**: If any assigned role with access to the database denies a privilege,
  the user is denied that privilege, even if another role grants it.
- **Effective privilege**: The user's effective privileges are the union of all
  granted privileges, minus any that are denied by any role.

This means that **deny always takes precedence over grant** when there is a
conflict. <br/>
**Note:** The resulting user privileges contain user's privileges only
if the user also has access to the database.

## Database access with users and roles

### Basic database access

In Memgraph Enterprise, both users and roles can have database access
permissions:

```cypher
-- Grant database access to a role
GRANT DATABASE db_name TO user_or_role;

-- Deny database access
DENY DATABASE db_name TO user_or_role;

-- Revoke database access
REVOKE DATABASE db_name TO user_or_role;
```

### How database access works

Database access follows these rules:
- **Grants**: If any role or user grants access to a database, database is
  granted
- **Denies**: If any role or user denies access to a database, database is
  denied
- **Access**: User or role has database access if it is granted and not denied


### Combining database access

When a user has multiple roles, their database access is combined from all
roles:

```cypher
-- Create roles with different database access
CREATE ROLE role1;
CREATE ROLE role2;

-- Grant different database access to each role
GRANT DATABASE db1 TO role1;
GRANT DATABASE db2 TO role2;

-- Create user and assign both roles
CREATE USER alice IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE FOR alice TO role1, role2;

-- Result: Alice has access to both db1 and db2
```

### Database access conflicts

When roles have conflicting database access, deny takes precedence:

```cypher
-- Role1 grants access to db1
GRANT DATABASE db1 TO role1;

-- Role2 denies access to db1
DENY DATABASE db1 TO role2;

-- User with both roles
SET ROLE FOR user TO role1, role2;

-- Result: User is denied access to db1 (deny takes precedence)
```

## Creating database-specific roles

### Using database access for tenant isolation

You can create roles that are specific to certain databases by controlling their
database access:

```cypher
-- Create tenant-specific roles
CREATE ROLE tenant1_admin;
CREATE ROLE tenant2_user;

-- Grant database access to specific tenants
GRANT DATABASE tenant1_db TO tenant1_admin;
GRANT DATABASE tenant2_db TO tenant2_user;

-- Grant appropriate permissions
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES TO tenant1_admin;
GRANT MATCH, CREATE, MERGE, SET TO tenant2_user;

-- Create user with both roles
CREATE USER bob IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE FOR bob TO tenant1_admin, tenant2_user;
```

### Limitations of this approach

While this approach works, it has some limitations:
- Users get access to all databases their roles have access to
- No fine-grained control over which role applies to which database
- Permission filtering is based on database access, not role assignment
- Admin needs to create a set of role for each database

## Better API: Database-specific role assignment

### Setting roles ON a database

Memgraph Enterprise provides a better API for database-specific role assignment
using the `ON database` clause:

```cypher
-- Assign role to specific database
SET ROLE FOR user_name TO role_name ON database_name;

-- Remove role from specific database
CLEAR ROLE FOR user_name ON database_name;

-- Remove all roles
CLEAR ROLES;
```

**Note:** Multiple roles can be specified on a database. However, the list of
roles needs to be exhaustive.

### How it works

This API provides true database-specific role assignment:

```cypher
-- Create roles with database access
CREATE ROLE tenant1_admin;
CREATE ROLE tenant2_user;

-- Grant database access to roles
GRANT DATABASE tenant1_db TO tenant1_admin;
GRANT DATABASE tenant2_db TO tenant2_user;

-- Grant permissions
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES TO tenant1_admin;
GRANT MATCH, CREATE, MERGE, SET TO tenant2_user;

-- Create user with database-specific roles
CREATE USER alice IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE FOR alice TO tenant1_admin ON tenant1_db;
SET ROLE FOR alice TO tenant2_user ON tenant2_db;
```

**Note:** The list of roles defined in the SET ROLE query is an exhaustive list.

### Special logic for database filtering

When using `SET ROLE ... ON database`, the system applies special logic:

1. **Database Access Check**: Only roles with access to the specified database
   can be assigned
2. **Permission Filtering**: When accessing a database, only roles assigned to
   that database are considered
3. **Isolation**: Users cannot access permissions from roles assigned to other
   databases
4. **Automatic Filtering**: The system automatically filters permissions based
   on the current database context

## Multi-tenant role management

### Adding database-specific roles

To assign a role to a user for a specific database:

```cypher
-- The role must have access to the database
GRANT DATABASE database_name TO role_name;
SET ROLE FOR user_name TO role_name ON database_name;
```

### Clearing database-specific roles

To remove a role from a specific database:

```cypher
CLEAR ROLE FOR user_name ON database_name;
```

### Viewing multi-tenant roles

**Note**: The `SHOW ROLE FOR USER` command does not require database
specification, even in multi-tenant environments. It will show all roles
assigned to the user across all databases.

```cypher
-- Show all roles for a user (works in all environments)  
SHOW ROLE FOR user_name;
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name;
```

To see which roles a user has for a specific database:

```cypher
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name ON database_name;
```

In multi-tenant environments, you can also use these additional options:

1. **Show roles for the user's main database:**
```cypher
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name ON MAIN;
```

2. **Show roles for the current database:**
```cypher
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name ON CURRENT;
```

3. **Show roles for a specific database:**
```cypher
SHOW ROLES FOR user_name ON DATABASE database_name;
```

These commands return the aggregated roles for the user in the specified
database context.

### Viewing permissions for a specific database

To see what permissions a user has in a specific database:

```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_name ON database_name;
```

In multi-tenant environments, you can also use these additional options:

1. **Show privileges for the user's main database:**
```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_name ON MAIN;
```

2. **Show privileges for the current database:**
```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_name ON CURRENT;
```

3. **Show privileges for a specific database:**
```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_name ON DATABASE database_name;
```

These commands return the aggregated privileges for the user in the specified
database context.

### SSO integration with multi-tenant roles

When using external auth modules, users can be assigned multi-tenant roles based
on their identity provider roles:

```python
def authenticate(username, password):
    # Example: User has multiple roles from identity provider
    if username == "cross_tenant_manager" and password == "password":
        return {
            "authenticated": True,
            "roles": ["tenant1_admin", "tenant2_user"],
            "role_databases": ["tenant1_db", "tenant2_db"],
            "username": "cross_tenant_manager"
        }
    
    return {"authenticated": False, "errors": "Invalid credentials"}
```

## Database access control

### Main database selection

When a user has multi-tenant roles with access to different databases, the
system determines the main database:

```cypher
-- Create roles with different main databases
CREATE ROLE role1;
CREATE ROLE role2;
GRANT DATABASE db1 TO role1;
GRANT DATABASE db2 TO role2;
SET MAIN DATABASE db1 FOR role1;
SET MAIN DATABASE db2 FOR role2;

-- User with both roles
CREATE USER user1 IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE role1 FOR user1 ON db1;
SET ROLE role2 FOR user1 ON db2;

```

<Callout type="info"> 
    In case of an SSO connection, no user information is stored in Memgraph;
    instead the auth module returns roles associated with the connection. In
    this case, there are no guarantees which role's main database will be
    selected. Use "database" in the session arguments to define the target
    database. 
</Callout>

### Database-specific permission filtering

The special logic ensures that when accessing a specific database, only roles
assigned to that database are considered:

```cypher
-- Role with access to multiple databases
CREATE ROLE multi_db_role;
GRANT DATABASE db1 TO multi_db_role;
GRANT DATABASE db2 TO multi_db_role;
GRANT MATCH, CREATE ON db1 TO multi_db_role;
GRANT MATCH ON db2 TO multi_db_role;

-- User with this role
CREATE USER user1 IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
SET ROLE multi_db_role FOR user1 ON db1;
SET ROLE multi_db_role FOR user1 ON db2;

-- When accessing db1: has MATCH, CREATE
-- When accessing db2: has only MATCH
```

## Best practices for multi-tenant environments

1. **Use descriptive role names**: Include tenant information in role names
   (e.g., `tenant1_admin`, `tenant2_user`)
2. **Follow principle of least privilege**: Grant only necessary permissions to
   each role
3. **Separate tenant-specific roles**: Create distinct roles for each tenant to
   ensure proper isolation
4. **Test permission combinations**: Verify that multi-tenant permissions work
   correctly in each database
5. **Document role assignments**: Keep track of which users have which roles for
   which databases
6. **Use deny sparingly**: Remember that deny takes precedence over grant across
   all databases
7. **Treat memgraph database as admin database**: In multi-tenant environments,
   restrict access to the default "memgraph" database to privileged users only
8. **Ensure AUTH privilege access**: Users who need to perform
   authentication/authorization operations must have both the `AUTH` privilege
   and access to the "memgraph" database
9. **Ensure replication privilege access**: Users who need to perform
   replication operations must have both the `REPLICATION` privilege and access
   to the "memgraph" database
10. **Ensure multi-database privilege access**: Users who need to perform
    multi-database operations must have the appropriate privileges
    (`MULTI_DATABASE_USE`, `MULTI_DATABASE_EDIT`) and access to the "memgraph"
    database
11. **Separate application data**: Store all application data in tenant-specific
    databases, not in the default "memgraph" database
12. **Plan for administrative operations**: Design your role structure to ensure
    that users who need to manage users, roles, replication, or multi-database
    operations have appropriate access to the "memgraph" database
13. **Use explicit database context**: Use `ON MAIN` for the user's main database,
    `ON CURRENT` for the currently active database, or `ON DATABASE` for a
    specific database
14. **Verify permissions in context**: Always check roles and privileges in the
    specific database context where they will be used
