pages/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control.mdx, before:

---
title: Role-based access control
description: Learn how to set up role-based access control.
---

# Role-based access control (Enterprise)

Role-Based access control (RBAC) simplifies data security by grouping users into
roles based on their tasks. Instead of assigning permissions to each user, RBAC
assigns privileges to roles. Users, when linked to roles, gain the necessary
access for their responsibilities. For example, in a company, a manager's role
might have different access levels than an employee's role. Through RBAC,
organizations efficiently ensure that users only access data relevant to their
role, enhancing security and minimizing risks.

With role-based access control, database administrator can assign various
priviledges to roles, but for even more control over who can access certain
data, Memgraph Enterprise offers [fine-grained access
control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control#fine-grained-access-control). 

## User roles 

Each user can be assigned at most one user role. User roles are abstractions
that capture the privilege levels of a set of users. 

For example, suppose that `Dominik` and `Marko` belong to upper management of a
certain company. It makes sense to grant them a set of privileges that other
users are not entitled to so, instead of granting those privileges to each of
them, we can create a role with those privileges called `manager` which we
assign to `Dominik` and `Marko`.

In other words, each privilege that is granted to a user role is automatically
granted to all the users with that role (unless it has been explicitly denied
to that user). Similarly, each privilege that is denied to a user role is
automatically denied to all users with that role (even if it has been
explicitly granted to that user).

To creat a user role, run the following query:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE role_name;
```

To assigning a user with a certain user role, run the following query:

```cypher
SET ROLE FOR user_name TO role_name;
```

To remove the role from the user, run the following query:

```cypher
CLEAR ROLE FOR user_name;
```

To show all users with a certain role:

```cypher
SHOW USERS FOR role_name;
```

To show what role a user has, run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW ROLE FOR user_name;
```

To list all defined user roles run:

```cypher
SHOW ROLES;
```

## Privileges

At the moment, privileges are confined to users' abilities to perform certain
`OpenCypher` queries. Namely users can be given permission to execute a subset
of the following commands:

| Privilege description | Clause |
| --------------------- | ------ |
| Privilege to [access data](/querying/read-and-modify-data). | `MATCH` |
| Privilege to [modify data](/querying/read-and-modify-data). | `MERGE`, `SET`|
| Privilege to [create](/querying/create-graph-objects) and [delete]](/querying/read-and-modify-data) data. | `CREATE`, `DELETE`, `REMOVE` |
| Privilege to [index data](/fundamentals/indexes). | `INDEX` |
| Privilege to [obtain statistics and information](/database-management/server-stats) from Memgraph. | `STATS` |
| Privilege to view and alter users, roles and privileges. | `AUTH` |
| Privilege to enforce [constraints](/fundamentals/constraints). | `CONSTRAINT` |
| Privilege to [dump the database](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup#database-dump).| `DUMP` |
| Privilege to use [replication](/clustering/replication) queries. | `REPLICATION` |
| Privilege to access files in queries, for example, when using `LOAD CSV` clause. | `READ_FILE` |
| Privilege to manage [durability files](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup#database-dump). | `DURABILITY` |
| Privilege to try and [free memory](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#deallocating-memory). | `FREE_MEMORY` |
| Privilege to use [trigger queries](/fundamentals/triggers). | `TRIGGER` |
| Privilege to [configure Memgraph during runtime](/database-management/configuration) and to attain the configuration of the given Memgraph instance. | `CONFIG` |
| Privilege to use [stream queries](/data-streams). | `STREAM` |
| Privilege to read the content of Python [query module files](/advanced-algorithms). | `MODULE_READ` |
| Privilege to modify the content of Python [query modules files](/advanced-algorithms). | `MODULE_WRITE` |
| Privilege to connect to [Memgraph monitoring server](/database-management/monitoring). | `WEBSOCKET`
| Privilege to [show and terminate transactions](/fundamentals/transactions#terminate-transactions). | `TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT` |
| Privilege to change [storage mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#storage-modes). | `STORAGE_MODE` |
| Privilege to manage [multi-tenant databases](/database-management/multi-tenancy). | `MULTI_DATABASE_EDIT` |
| Privilege to use a database within the multi-tenant architecture. | `MULTI_DATABASE_USE` |
| Privileges to specific labels. | `ALL LABELS` |
| Privileges to specific relationships types. | `ALL EDGE TYPES` |

After the first user is created, Memgraph will execute a query if and only if
either a user or its role is granted that privilege and neither the user nor its
role are denied that privilege. Otherwise, Memgraph will not execute that
specific query. Note that `DENY` is a stronger operation than `GRANT`. This is
also notable from the fact that if neither the user nor its role are explicitly
granted or denied a certain privilege, that user will not be able to perform
that specific query. This effect also is known as a silent deny. The information
above is neatly condensed in the following table:

User Status | Role Status | Effective Status
------------|-------------|------------------
GRANT       | GRANT       | GRANT
GRANT       | DENY        | DENY
GRANT       | NULL        | GRANT
DENY        | GRANT       | DENY
DENY        | DENY        | DENY
DENY        | NULL        | DENY
NULL        | GRANT       | GRANT
NULL        | DENY        | DENY
NULL        | NULL        | DENY

Once the privilages are changed, they take full effect once the user reconnects
to the database. 

#### Grant privileges

To grant a certain set of privileges to a specific user or user role, use the
following query:

```cypher
GRANT privilege_list TO user_or_role;
```

For example, to grant `AUTH` and `INDEX` privileges to users with the
`moderator` role, run:

```cypher
GRANT AUTH, INDEX TO moderator:
```
#### Deny privileges 

Similarly, denying privileges is done using the `DENY` keyword instead of
`GRANT`.

For example, to deny `AUTH` and `INDEX` privileges to users with the
`moderator` role, run:

```cypher
DENY AUTH, INDEX TO moderator:
```

#### Revoke privileges

Both denied and granted privileges can be revoked, meaning that their status is
not defined for that user or role. Revoking is done using the `REVOKE` keyword.

For example, to revoke `AUTH` and `INDEX` privileges to users with the
`moderator` role, run:

```cypher
REVOKE AUTH, INDEX TO moderator:
```

Although semantically unintuitive, the level of a certain privilege can be
raised by using `REVOKE`. For instance, if a user has been denied the `INDEX`
privilege, but the role it belongs to is granted that privilege, the user is
unable to use indexing features.

If the user's `INDEX` privilege is revoked, they will be able to do use indexing
features because his role is granted that privilege.

#### Manage all privileges at once

To grant, deny or revoke all privileges use the `ALL PRIVILEGES` construct:

```cypher
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES FROM <user>;
```

```cypher
DENY ALL PRIVILEGES FROM <user>;
```

```cypher
REVOKE ALL PRIVILEGES FROM <user>;
```

#### Show privileges

To check privilege for a certain user or role, run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_or_role;
```

## Fine-grained access control

Sometimes, authorizing the database by granting and denying clause privileges is
not enough to make the database fully secure. Certain nodes and relationships
can be confidential and must be restricted from viewing and manipulating by
multiple users. Also, disabling users from executing certain commands is sometimes too
restrictive.

In response to the need for such authorization, Memgraph has added [label-based
access
control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control#label-based-access-control)
(LBAC) as a more fine-grained access control to enable authorization on node
labels and relationship edge types. By applying authorization to graph's first
class citizens, a database administrator can now keep all the data in one
database while keeping any private data secure from those who don't have
adequate permission.

### Label-based access control


Label-based permissions are divided into 4 hierarchical parts or levels:
- `NOTHING` - denies user visibility and manipulation over nodes and relationships
- `READ` - grants the user visibility over nodes and relationships
- `UPDATE` - grants the user visibility and the ability to edit nodes and relationships 
- `CREATE_DELETE` - grants the user visibility, editing, creation, and deletion of a node or a
relationship

#### Node permissions

Granting a certain set of node permissions can be done similarly to the clause 
privileges using the following command:

```cypher
GRANT permission_level ON LABELS label_list TO user_or_role;
```

with the legend:
- `permission_level` is either `NOTHING`, `READ`, `UPDATE` or `CREATE_DELETE`
- `label_list` is a set of node labels, separated with a comma and with a colon in front of
each label (e.g. `:L1`), or `*` for specifying all labels in the graph
- `user_or_role` is the already created user or role in Memgraph

For example, granting a `READ` permission on labels `L1` and `L2` would be written as:

```cypher
GRANT READ ON LABELS :L1, :L2 TO charlie;
```

while granting both `READ` and `EDIT` permissions for all labels in the graph, would be written as:

```cypher
GRANT UPDATE ON LABELS * TO charlie;
```

For denying visibility to a node, the command would be written as:

```cypher
GRANT NOTHING ON LABELS :L1 TO charlie;
```

#### Relationship permissions

Relationship permission queries are in essence the same as node permission queries, with the
one difference that the name of the relationship type is `EDGE_TYPE` and not `LABEL`.

Granting a certain set of edge type permissions can be done similarly to the
clause privileges by issuing the following command:

```cypher
GRANT permission_level ON EDGE_TYPES edge_type_list TO user_or_role;
```

with the same legend as the node permissions.

For example, granting a `READ` permission on relationship type `:CONNECTS` would be written as:

```cypher
GRANT READ ON EDGE_TYPES :CONNECTS TO charlie;
```

#### Revoke label-based permissions

To revoke any of the label-based permissions, users can use one of the following commands:

```cypher
REVOKE (LABELS | EDGE_TYPES) label_or_edge_type_list FROM user_or_role
```

where:
- `label_or_edge_type_list` is a list of labels or edge types with a colon in front of each
label or edge type (or `*` for specifying all labels or edge types)
- `user_or_role` is the existing user or role in Memgraph

#### Show privileges for label-based access control

To check which privileges an existing user or role has in Memgraph, it is enough to write

```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_or_role;
```

and all the values of clause privileges, as well as label-based permissions will be displayed.

### Templates for granting privileges

To grant all privileges to a superuser (admin):

```
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES TO admin;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON LABELS * TO admin;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON EDGE_TYPES * TO admin;
```

To grant all read and write privileges:

```
DENY ALL PRIVILEGES TO readWrite;
GRANT CREATE, DELETE, MERGE, SET, REMOVE, INDEX, MATCH, STATS TO readWrite;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON LABELS * TO readWrite;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON EDGE_TYPES * TO readWrite;
```

To grant read only privileges: 

```
DENY ALL PRIVILEGES TO readonly;
GRANT MATCH, STATS TO readonly;
GRANT READ ON LABELS * TO readonly;
GRANT READ ON EDGE_TYPES * TO readonly;
```

### Examples

Below are several examples of using the Enterprise security features. 

#### Granting read permissions

Bob is a data analyst for the company. He is making sure he can extract any useful insights
from the data imported into the database. For now, all the data is labeled with the `DataPoint`
label. Alice has already created a data analyst role as well as Bob's account in Memgraph with:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE analyst;
CREATE USER Bob IDENTIFIED BY 'test';
SET ROLE FOR Bob TO analyst;
```

Unfortunately, when he writes:

```cypher
MATCH (n:DataPoint) RETURN n;
```

he gets an error that he can not execute the query. Why is that? The first
problem that we encounter is that Bob can not perform `MATCH` queries, which we
must explicitly grant.

The database administrator grants him and all the data analysts the `MATCH`
query to traverse the graph with:

```cypher
GRANT MATCH TO analyst;
```

Now Bob is able to perform a match. However, by executing the same query again,
he is not able to get any results.

Since Bob is not an administrator, he was not able to see any data points in the
graph. In other words, he does not have `READ` permission on the `DataPoint`
label.

Memgraph's label-based access control is hierarchically constructed, and the
first permission one can be given on node labels or relationship edge types is
`READ`.

Alice now updates Bob's permissions by executing:

```cypher
GRANT READ ON LABELS :DataPoint TO analyst;
```

Bob is now executing his queries normally and is able to get insights from the
database with respect to all the data points in the graph!

Additionally, in the company, it was decided that all the data points would be
connected in a time series fashion, depending on when they were ingested into
the database. One `DataPoint` should therefore be connected to the previously
inserted one. The relationship type is called `:NEXT`.

Bob now again has problems, because when he executes:

```cypher
MATCH (n:DataPoint)-[e:NEXT]->(m:DataPoint);
```

he is not able to see the patterns. Although Bob can see all the data points, he
doesn't have permission to view the relationships. The database administrator
executes the following command to solve the problem:

```cypher
GRANT READ ON EDGE_TYPES :NEXT TO analyst;
```

Since the users are initially constructed without any permission, they would
need an explicit grant for every new label that appears in the database. This
approach is called whitelisting, and is more secure for adding new entities in
the database since confidential nodes and relationships are not leaked into the
database before securing them.

#### Granting update permissions

Charlie is a tester and customer care specialist. He is in charge of reporting
bugs and fixing issues in the database. A common problem that he is facing is
updating the classes of the data points if they are labeled incorrectly. For
example, the class of one `DataPoint` might be 'dog', while in fact it is an
'elephant', but it was wrongly selected in the rush of labeling many data
points. Charlie needs to update the wrongly labeled data points, and he already
has the IDs of all the nodes he must update. 

The administrator has already set up his account with the following commands:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE tester;
CREATE USER Charlie IDENTIFIED BY 'test';
SET ROLE FOR Charlie TO tester;

GRANT MATCH, SET TO tester;

GRANT READ ON LABELS :DataPoint TO tester;
GRANT READ ON EDGE_TYPES :NEXT TO tester;
```

He now has read privileges just like all the data analysts, but when he gets an
authorization error while executing:

```cypher
MATCH (n:DataPoint {id:505}) SET n.labelY = 'elephant';
```

The error occurs because Charlie does not have permission to update the existing
nodes in the graph. The database administrator needs to update Charlie's
permissions and grant him access to update the node properties with:

```cypher
GRANT UPDATE ON LABELS :DataPoint TO tester;
```

Charlie is now able to update the labeled categories of any data point in the
graph! The same permission applies if he needs to update a relationship property
in the graph.

#### Granting full access permissions

David is the data engineer for the company. He is very skilled in database
systems, and he has been assigned the task of deleting every data point in the
system that's older than one year. Alice has his account set up with the
following commands:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE dataEngineer;
CREATE USER David IDENTIFIED BY 'test';
SET ROLE FOR David TO dataEngineer;

GRANT MATCH, DELETE TO dataEngineer;

GRANT UPDATE ON LABELS :DataPoint TO dataEngineer;
GRANT UPDATE ON EDGE_TYPES :NEXT TO dataEngineer;
```

However, `UPDATE` privilege capabilities only grant manipulation of properties, not the nodes
and relationships themselves. Therefore, the query:

```cypher
MATCH (n:DataPoint) WHERE localDateTime() - n.date > Duration({day:365}) DETACH DELETE n;
```

results in an error. The permission that grants read, update, create, and delete
rights over the nodes and relationships in the graph is `CREATE_DELETE`. By
executing the following commands:

```cypher
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON LABELS :DataPoint TO dataEngineer;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON EDGE_TYPES :NEXT TO dataEngineer;
```

The permission is executed on relationships as well, since David needs to detach
the nodes prior to deleting them. David is now able to successfully delete the
deprecated nodes.

#### Denying visibility

Eve is the new senior engineer, and she is making excellent progress in the
company. The management therefore decided to grant her visibility and
manipulation over all the nodes. However, there are certain confidential nodes
that are only for the management people to see.

Since there could be a lot of different node labels or relationship types in the
database, a shortcut can be made by granting `NOTHING` to the entity. The
database administrator therefore sets Eve's role as:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE seniorEngineer;
CREATE USER Eve IDENTIFIED BY 'test';
SET ROLE FOR Eve TO seniorEngineer;

GRANT MATCH, DELETE TO seniorEngineer;

GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON LABELS * TO seniorEngineer;
GRANT NOTHING ON LABELS :SecretLabel TO seniorEngineer;
```

When granting `NOTHING`, the user is denied both visibility and manipulation of
the entity. Eve is now able to see all the domain data while the management is
happy since they have not leaked any confidential data.

Commit message:

Added description for if not exists for users and roles

pages/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control.mdx, after:

---
title: Role-based access control
description: Learn how to set up role-based access control.
---

# Role-based access control (Enterprise)

Role-Based access control (RBAC) simplifies data security by grouping users into
roles based on their tasks. Instead of assigning permissions to each user, RBAC
assigns privileges to roles. Users, when linked to roles, gain the necessary
access for their responsibilities. For example, in a company, a manager's role
might have different access levels than an employee's role. Through RBAC,
organizations efficiently ensure that users only access data relevant to their
role, enhancing security and minimizing risks.

With role-based access control, database administrator can assign various
priviledges to roles, but for even more control over who can access certain
data, Memgraph Enterprise offers [fine-grained access
control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control#fine-grained-access-control). 

## User roles 

Each user can be assigned at most one user role. User roles are abstractions
that capture the privilege levels of a set of users. 

For example, suppose that `Dominik` and `Marko` belong to upper management of a
certain company. It makes sense to grant them a set of privileges that other
users are not entitled to so, instead of granting those privileges to each of
them, we can create a role with those privileges called `manager` which we
assign to `Dominik` and `Marko`.

In other words, each privilege that is granted to a user role is automatically
granted to all the users with that role (unless it has been explicitly denied
to that user). Similarly, each privilege that is denied to a user role is
automatically denied to all users with that role (even if it has been
explicitly granted to that user).

To creat a user role, run the following query:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE [IF NOT EXISTS] role_name;
```

If role already exists you can use IF NOT EXISTS to only create new roles.

To assigning a user with a certain user role, run the following query:

```cypher
SET ROLE FOR user_name TO role_name;
```

To remove the role from the user, run the following query:

```cypher
CLEAR ROLE FOR user_name;
```

To show all users with a certain role:

```cypher
SHOW USERS FOR role_name;
```

To show what role a user has, run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW ROLE FOR user_name;
```

To list all defined user roles run:

```cypher
SHOW ROLES;
```

## Privileges

At the moment, privileges are confined to users' abilities to perform certain
`OpenCypher` queries. Namely users can be given permission to execute a subset
of the following commands:

| Privilege description | Clause |
| --------------------- | ------ |
| Privilege to [access data](/querying/read-and-modify-data). | `MATCH` |
| Privilege to [modify data](/querying/read-and-modify-data). | `MERGE`, `SET`|
| Privilege to [create](/querying/create-graph-objects) and [delete]](/querying/read-and-modify-data) data. | `CREATE`, `DELETE`, `REMOVE` |
| Privilege to [index data](/fundamentals/indexes). | `INDEX` |
| Privilege to [obtain statistics and information](/database-management/server-stats) from Memgraph. | `STATS` |
| Privilege to view and alter users, roles and privileges. | `AUTH` |
| Privilege to enforce [constraints](/fundamentals/constraints). | `CONSTRAINT` |
| Privilege to [dump the database](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup#database-dump).| `DUMP` |
| Privilege to use [replication](/clustering/replication) queries. | `REPLICATION` |
| Privilege to access files in queries, for example, when using `LOAD CSV` clause. | `READ_FILE` |
| Privilege to manage [durability files](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup#database-dump). | `DURABILITY` |
| Privilege to try and [free memory](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#deallocating-memory). | `FREE_MEMORY` |
| Privilege to use [trigger queries](/fundamentals/triggers). | `TRIGGER` |
| Privilege to [configure Memgraph during runtime](/database-management/configuration) and to attain the configuration of the given Memgraph instance. | `CONFIG` |
| Privilege to use [stream queries](/data-streams). | `STREAM` |
| Privilege to read the content of Python [query module files](/advanced-algorithms). | `MODULE_READ` |
| Privilege to modify the content of Python [query modules files](/advanced-algorithms). | `MODULE_WRITE` |
| Privilege to connect to [Memgraph monitoring server](/database-management/monitoring). | `WEBSOCKET`
| Privilege to [show and terminate transactions](/fundamentals/transactions#terminate-transactions). | `TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT` |
| Privilege to change [storage mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#storage-modes). | `STORAGE_MODE` |
| Privilege to manage [multi-tenant databases](/database-management/multi-tenancy). | `MULTI_DATABASE_EDIT` |
| Privilege to use a database within the multi-tenant architecture. | `MULTI_DATABASE_USE` |
| Privileges to specific labels. | `ALL LABELS` |
| Privileges to specific relationships types. | `ALL EDGE TYPES` |

After the first user is created, Memgraph will execute a query if and only if
either a user or its role is granted that privilege and neither the user nor its
role are denied that privilege. Otherwise, Memgraph will not execute that
specific query. Note that `DENY` is a stronger operation than `GRANT`. This is
also notable from the fact that if neither the user nor its role are explicitly
granted or denied a certain privilege, that user will not be able to perform
that specific query. This effect also is known as a silent deny. The information
above is neatly condensed in the following table:

User Status | Role Status | Effective Status
------------|-------------|------------------
GRANT       | GRANT       | GRANT
GRANT       | DENY        | DENY
GRANT       | NULL        | GRANT
DENY        | GRANT       | DENY
DENY        | DENY        | DENY
DENY        | NULL        | DENY
NULL        | GRANT       | GRANT
NULL        | DENY        | DENY
NULL        | NULL        | DENY

Once the privilages are changed, they take full effect once the user reconnects
to the database. 

#### Grant privileges

To grant a certain set of privileges to a specific user or user role, use the
following query:

```cypher
GRANT privilege_list TO user_or_role;
```

For example, to grant `AUTH` and `INDEX` privileges to users with the
`moderator` role, run:

```cypher
GRANT AUTH, INDEX TO moderator:
```
#### Deny privileges 

Similarly, denying privileges is done using the `DENY` keyword instead of
`GRANT`.

For example, to deny `AUTH` and `INDEX` privileges to users with the
`moderator` role, run:

```cypher
DENY AUTH, INDEX TO moderator:
```

#### Revoke privileges

Both denied and granted privileges can be revoked, meaning that their status is
not defined for that user or role. Revoking is done using the `REVOKE` keyword.

For example, to revoke `AUTH` and `INDEX` privileges to users with the
`moderator` role, run:

```cypher
REVOKE AUTH, INDEX TO moderator:
```

Although semantically unintuitive, the level of a certain privilege can be
raised by using `REVOKE`. For instance, if a user has been denied the `INDEX`
privilege, but the role it belongs to is granted that privilege, the user is
unable to use indexing features.

If the user's `INDEX` privilege is revoked, they will be able to do use indexing
features because his role is granted that privilege.

#### Manage all privileges at once

To grant, deny or revoke all privileges use the `ALL PRIVILEGES` construct:

```cypher
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES FROM <user>;
```

```cypher
DENY ALL PRIVILEGES FROM <user>;
```

```cypher
REVOKE ALL PRIVILEGES FROM <user>;
```

#### Show privileges

To check privilege for a certain user or role, run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_or_role;
```

## Fine-grained access control

Sometimes, authorizing the database by granting and denying clause privileges is
not enough to make the database fully secure. Certain nodes and relationships
can be confidential and must be restricted from viewing and manipulating by
multiple users. Also, disabling users from executing certain commands is sometimes too
restrictive.

In response to the need for such authorization, Memgraph has added [label-based
access
control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control#label-based-access-control)
(LBAC) as a more fine-grained access control to enable authorization on node
labels and relationship edge types. By applying authorization to graph's first
class citizens, a database administrator can now keep all the data in one
database while keeping any private data secure from those who don't have
adequate permission.

### Label-based access control


Label-based permissions are divided into 4 hierarchical parts or levels:
- `NOTHING` - denies user visibility and manipulation over nodes and relationships
- `READ` - grants the user visibility over nodes and relationships
- `UPDATE` - grants the user visibility and the ability to edit nodes and relationships 
- `CREATE_DELETE` - grants the user visibility, editing, creation, and deletion of a node or a
relationship

#### Node permissions

Granting a certain set of node permissions can be done similarly to the clause 
privileges using the following command:

```cypher
GRANT permission_level ON LABELS label_list TO user_or_role;
```

with the legend:
- `permission_level` is either `NOTHING`, `READ`, `UPDATE` or `CREATE_DELETE`
- `label_list` is a set of node labels, separated with a comma and with a colon in front of
each label (e.g. `:L1`), or `*` for specifying all labels in the graph
- `user_or_role` is the already created user or role in Memgraph

For example, granting a `READ` permission on labels `L1` and `L2` would be written as:

```cypher
GRANT READ ON LABELS :L1, :L2 TO charlie;
```

while granting both `READ` and `EDIT` permissions for all labels in the graph, would be written as:

```cypher
GRANT UPDATE ON LABELS * TO charlie;
```

For denying visibility to a node, the command would be written as:

```cypher
GRANT NOTHING ON LABELS :L1 TO charlie;
```

#### Relationship permissions

Relationship permission queries are in essence the same as node permission queries, with the
one difference that the name of the relationship type is `EDGE_TYPE` and not `LABEL`.

Granting a certain set of edge type permissions can be done similarly to the
clause privileges by issuing the following command:

```cypher
GRANT permission_level ON EDGE_TYPES edge_type_list TO user_or_role;
```

with the same legend as the node permissions.

For example, granting a `READ` permission on relationship type `:CONNECTS` would be written as:

```cypher
GRANT READ ON EDGE_TYPES :CONNECTS TO charlie;
```

#### Revoke label-based permissions

To revoke any of the label-based permissions, users can use one of the following commands:

```cypher
REVOKE (LABELS | EDGE_TYPES) label_or_edge_type_list FROM user_or_role
```

where:
- `label_or_edge_type_list` is a list of labels or edge types with a colon in front of each
label or edge type (or `*` for specifying all labels or edge types)
- `user_or_role` is the existing user or role in Memgraph

#### Show privileges for label-based access control

To check which privileges an existing user or role has in Memgraph, it is enough to write

```cypher
SHOW PRIVILEGES FOR user_or_role;
```

and all the values of clause privileges, as well as label-based permissions will be displayed.

### Templates for granting privileges

To grant all privileges to a superuser (admin):

```
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES TO admin;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON LABELS * TO admin;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON EDGE_TYPES * TO admin;
```

To grant all read and write privileges:

```
DENY ALL PRIVILEGES TO readWrite;
GRANT CREATE, DELETE, MERGE, SET, REMOVE, INDEX, MATCH, STATS TO readWrite;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON LABELS * TO readWrite;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON EDGE_TYPES * TO readWrite;
```

To grant read only privileges: 

```
DENY ALL PRIVILEGES TO readonly;
GRANT MATCH, STATS TO readonly;
GRANT READ ON LABELS * TO readonly;
GRANT READ ON EDGE_TYPES * TO readonly;
```

### Examples

Below are several examples of using the Enterprise security features. 

#### Granting read permissions

Bob is a data analyst for the company. He is making sure he can extract any useful insights
from the data imported into the database. For now, all the data is labeled with the `DataPoint`
label. Alice has already created a data analyst role as well as Bob's account in Memgraph with:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE analyst;
CREATE USER Bob IDENTIFIED BY 'test';
SET ROLE FOR Bob TO analyst;
```

Unfortunately, when he writes:

```cypher
MATCH (n:DataPoint) RETURN n;
```

he gets an error that he can not execute the query. Why is that? The first
problem that we encounter is that Bob can not perform `MATCH` queries, which we
must explicitly grant.

The database administrator grants him and all the data analysts the `MATCH`
query to traverse the graph with:

```cypher
GRANT MATCH TO analyst;
```

Now Bob is able to perform a match. However, by executing the same query again,
he is not able to get any results.

Since Bob is not an administrator, he was not able to see any data points in the
graph. In other words, he does not have `READ` permission on the `DataPoint`
label.

Memgraph's label-based access control is hierarchically constructed, and the
first permission one can be given on node labels or relationship edge types is
`READ`.

Alice now updates Bob's permissions by executing:

```cypher
GRANT READ ON LABELS :DataPoint TO analyst;
```

Bob is now executing his queries normally and is able to get insights from the
database with respect to all the data points in the graph!

Additionally, in the company, it was decided that all the data points would be
connected in a time series fashion, depending on when they were ingested into
the database. One `DataPoint` should therefore be connected to the previously
inserted one. The relationship type is called `:NEXT`.

Bob now again has problems, because when he executes:

```cypher
MATCH (n:DataPoint)-[e:NEXT]->(m:DataPoint);
```

he is not able to see the patterns. Although Bob can see all the data points, he
doesn't have permission to view the relationships. The database administrator
executes the following command to solve the problem:

```cypher
GRANT READ ON EDGE_TYPES :NEXT TO analyst;
```

Since the users are initially constructed without any permission, they would
need an explicit grant for every new label that appears in the database. This
approach is called whitelisting, and is more secure for adding new entities in
the database since confidential nodes and relationships are not leaked into the
database before securing them.

#### Granting update permissions

Charlie is a tester and customer care specialist. He is in charge of reporting
bugs and fixing issues in the database. A common problem that he is facing is
updating the classes of the data points if they are labeled incorrectly. For
example, the class of one `DataPoint` might be 'dog', while in fact it is an
'elephant', but it was wrongly selected in the rush of labeling many data
points. Charlie needs to update the wrongly labeled data points, and he already
has the IDs of all the nodes he must update. 

The administrator has already set up his account with the following commands:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE tester;
CREATE USER Charlie IDENTIFIED BY 'test';
SET ROLE FOR Charlie TO tester;

GRANT MATCH, SET TO tester;

GRANT READ ON LABELS :DataPoint TO tester;
GRANT READ ON EDGE_TYPES :NEXT TO tester;
```

He now has read privileges just like all the data analysts, but when he gets an
authorization error while executing:

```cypher
MATCH (n:DataPoint {id:505}) SET n.labelY = 'elephant';
```

The error occurs because Charlie does not have permission to update the existing
nodes in the graph. The database administrator needs to update Charlie's
permissions and grant him access to update the node properties with:

```cypher
GRANT UPDATE ON LABELS :DataPoint TO tester;
```

Charlie is now able to update the labeled categories of any data point in the
graph! The same permission applies if he needs to update a relationship property
in the graph.

#### Granting full access permissions

David is the data engineer for the company. He is very skilled in database
systems, and he has been assigned the task of deleting every data point in the
system that's older than one year. Alice has his account set up with the
following commands:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE dataEngineer;
CREATE USER David IDENTIFIED BY 'test';
SET ROLE FOR David TO dataEngineer;

GRANT MATCH, DELETE TO dataEngineer;

GRANT UPDATE ON LABELS :DataPoint TO dataEngineer;
GRANT UPDATE ON EDGE_TYPES :NEXT TO dataEngineer;
```

However, `UPDATE` privilege capabilities only grant manipulation of properties, not the nodes
and relationships themselves. Therefore, the query:

```cypher
MATCH (n:DataPoint) WHERE localDateTime() - n.date > Duration({day:365}) DETACH DELETE n;
```

results in an error. The permission that grants read, update, create, and delete
rights over the nodes and relationships in the graph is `CREATE_DELETE`. By
executing the following commands:

```cypher
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON LABELS :DataPoint TO dataEngineer;
GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON EDGE_TYPES :NEXT TO dataEngineer;
```

The permission is executed on relationships as well, since David needs to detach
the nodes prior to deleting them. David is now able to successfully delete the
deprecated nodes.

#### Denying visibility

Eve is the new senior engineer, and she is making excellent progress in the
company. The management therefore decided to grant her visibility and
manipulation over all the nodes. However, there are certain confidential nodes
that are only for the management people to see.

Since there could be a lot of different node labels or relationship types in the
database, a shortcut can be made by granting `NOTHING` to the entity. The
database administrator therefore sets Eve's role as:

```cypher
CREATE ROLE seniorEngineer;
CREATE USER Eve IDENTIFIED BY 'test';
SET ROLE FOR Eve TO seniorEngineer;

GRANT MATCH, DELETE TO seniorEngineer;

GRANT CREATE_DELETE ON LABELS * TO seniorEngineer;
GRANT NOTHING ON LABELS :SecretLabel TO seniorEngineer;
```

When granting `NOTHING`, the user is denied both visibility and manipulation of
the entity. Eve is now able to see all the domain data while the management is
happy since they have not leaked any confidential data.
