pages/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/users.mdx, before:

---
title: Users
description: Learn how to manage users.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Users 

In Memgraph, users and their passwords can be created with a simple Cypher
query. This level of security is supported within the Community version of
Memgraph. For more advanced security features within Memgraph Enterprise, check
out [role-based access
control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control)
and [auth system integrations](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations).

## Creating users

Creating a user can be done by executing the following command:

```cypher
CREATE USER user_name [IDENTIFIED BY 'password'];
```

If the username is an email address, you need to enclose it in backticks (``` ` ```):

```cypher
CREATE USER `alice@memgraph.com` IDENTIFIED BY '0042'; 
``` 

If you want to create a username that includes a space character, you must set
the `--auth-user-or-role-regex` flag to include spaces. For example,
`--auth-user-or-role-name-regex=[a-zA-Z0-9_.+\-@ ]+`.

If the user should authenticate themselves on each session, i.e. provide their
password on each session, the part within the brackets is mandatory. Otherwise,
the password is set to `null` and the user will be allowed to log-in using
any password, provided that they use the correct username.

To set or alter a user's password run the following command:

```cypher
SET PASSWORD FOR user_name TO 'new_password';
```

Setting the users's password to null removes the password, allowing the user to
log-in using any password:

```cypher
SET PASSWORD FOR user_name TO null;
```
To delete a user run the following command:

```cypher
DROP USER user_name;
```

### Password encryption algorithm

Memgraph offers multiple password encryption algorithms:
* BCrypt
* SHA256
* SHA256 with multiple iterations (currently set to 1024 iterations)

The above algorithms can be specified at runtime using the flag `--password-encryption-algorithm` with the
appropriate values of `bcrypt`, `sha256` or `sha256-multiple`.

**BCrypt**
This algorithm is the default algorithm for password encryption. It's the most secure algorithm and has the best
protection against brute-force attack. However, if you're running connecting multiple concurrent enterprise users with
passwords at the same time, it may not be the best choice for you as you might experience slower performance. The performance
is slower only during authentication of the users, and should not degrade once the connection has been established.

**SHA256 and SHA256 with multiple iterations**
SHA256 is an encryption algorithm that's usually not used for password encryption but is fast and secure enough to
offer optimal performance when running a lot of concurrent opening connections to Memgraph.

## Authentication

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>
<Tab>

**`memgraph` and `memgraph-mage` images**

If you are using Docker and `memgraph` or `memgraph-mage` image enter username
and password when connecting manually to Memgraph Lab. 

If you are connecting with mgconsole you should add the username and password
flags to the `docker run` command: 

```terminal
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph --host CONTAINER_IP --username=<username> --password=<password>
```

Example:

```terminal
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph --host 172.17.0.2 --username=vlasta --password=vp
```

</Tab>
<Tab>

If you are using Linux and connecting with Memgraph Lab, select *Connect
Manually* and enter username (and password). 

When connecting with mgconsole, set
the `--username` and `--password` flags:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687 --username <username> --password <password>
```

Example:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687 --username vlasta --password vp
```
   
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Owners

The privileges of the owners of [streams](/data-streams) and
[triggers](/fundamentals/triggers#owners) are propagated to the corresponding
query executions:
- in case of streams for the queries returned by the transformations
- in case of triggers for trigger statements.

This means the execution of the queries will fail if the owner doesn't have the
required privileges. There are a few important details:
- If there are no existing users, no privilege check is performed similarly to
regular queries.
- If a stream or trigger is created without using a logged-in user
session, the owner will be `Null`. From the point when the first user is created
such streams and triggers will fail because the lack of owner is treated as a
user without any privileges, so no queries are allowed to be executed.
- Currently, there is no way of changing the owner. The only workaround for this
is to delete the stream or trigger and then create it again with another user.

The user who executes the `CREATE STREAM` query is going to be the owner of the stream.
Authentication and authorization are not supported in Memgraph Community, thus
the owner will always be `Null`, and the privileges are not checked in Memgraph
Community. In Memgraph Enterprise the privileges of the owner are used when
executing the queries returned from a transformation, in other words, the
execution of the queries will fail if the owner doesn't have the required
[privileges](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control#privileges).

Commit message:

Added description for if not exists for users and roles

pages/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/users.mdx, after:

---
title: Users
description: Learn how to manage users.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Users 

In Memgraph, users and their passwords can be created with a simple Cypher
query. This level of security is supported within the Community version of
Memgraph. For more advanced security features within Memgraph Enterprise, check
out [role-based access
control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control)
and [auth system integrations](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations).

## Creating users

Creating a user can be done by executing the following command:

```cypher
CREATE USER [IF NOT EXISTS] user_name [IDENTIFIED BY 'password'];
```
If user already exists you can use IF NOT EXISTS to only create new users.

If the username is an email address, you need to enclose it in backticks (``` ` ```):

```cypher
CREATE USER `alice@memgraph.com` IDENTIFIED BY '0042'; 
``` 

If you want to create a username that includes a space character, you must set
the `--auth-user-or-role-regex` flag to include spaces. For example,
`--auth-user-or-role-name-regex=[a-zA-Z0-9_.+\-@ ]+`.

If the user should authenticate themselves on each session, i.e. provide their
password on each session, the part within the brackets is mandatory. Otherwise,
the password is set to `null` and the user will be allowed to log-in using
any password, provided that they use the correct username.

To set or alter a user's password run the following command:

```cypher
SET PASSWORD FOR user_name TO 'new_password';
```

Setting the users's password to null removes the password, allowing the user to
log-in using any password:

```cypher
SET PASSWORD FOR user_name TO null;
```
To delete a user run the following command:

```cypher
DROP USER user_name;
```

### Password encryption algorithm

Memgraph offers multiple password encryption algorithms:
* BCrypt
* SHA256
* SHA256 with multiple iterations (currently set to 1024 iterations)

The above algorithms can be specified at runtime using the flag `--password-encryption-algorithm` with the
appropriate values of `bcrypt`, `sha256` or `sha256-multiple`.

**BCrypt**
This algorithm is the default algorithm for password encryption. It's the most secure algorithm and has the best
protection against brute-force attack. However, if you're running connecting multiple concurrent enterprise users with
passwords at the same time, it may not be the best choice for you as you might experience slower performance. The performance
is slower only during authentication of the users, and should not degrade once the connection has been established.

**SHA256 and SHA256 with multiple iterations**
SHA256 is an encryption algorithm that's usually not used for password encryption but is fast and secure enough to
offer optimal performance when running a lot of concurrent opening connections to Memgraph.

## Authentication

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>
<Tab>

**`memgraph` and `memgraph-mage` images**

If you are using Docker and `memgraph` or `memgraph-mage` image enter username
and password when connecting manually to Memgraph Lab. 

If you are connecting with mgconsole you should add the username and password
flags to the `docker run` command: 

```terminal
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph --host CONTAINER_IP --username=<username> --password=<password>
```

Example:

```terminal
docker run -it --entrypoint=mgconsole memgraph/memgraph --host 172.17.0.2 --username=vlasta --password=vp
```

</Tab>
<Tab>

If you are using Linux and connecting with Memgraph Lab, select *Connect
Manually* and enter username (and password). 

When connecting with mgconsole, set
the `--username` and `--password` flags:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687 --username <username> --password <password>
```

Example:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687 --username vlasta --password vp
```
   
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Owners

The privileges of the owners of [streams](/data-streams) and
[triggers](/fundamentals/triggers#owners) are propagated to the corresponding
query executions:
- in case of streams for the queries returned by the transformations
- in case of triggers for trigger statements.

This means the execution of the queries will fail if the owner doesn't have the
required privileges. There are a few important details:
- If there are no existing users, no privilege check is performed similarly to
regular queries.
- If a stream or trigger is created without using a logged-in user
session, the owner will be `Null`. From the point when the first user is created
such streams and triggers will fail because the lack of owner is treated as a
user without any privileges, so no queries are allowed to be executed.
- Currently, there is no way of changing the owner. The only workaround for this
is to delete the stream or trigger and then create it again with another user.

The user who executes the `CREATE STREAM` query is going to be the owner of the stream.
Authentication and authorization are not supported in Memgraph Community, thus
the owner will always be `Null`, and the privileges are not checked in Memgraph
Community. In Memgraph Enterprise the privileges of the owner are used when
executing the queries returned from a transformation, in other words, the
execution of the queries will fail if the owner doesn't have the required
[privileges](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control#privileges).
