pages/configuration/enabling-memgraph-enterprise.mdx, before:

---
title: Enabling Memgraph Enterprise
description: Learn how to enable Memgraph Enterprise and leverage its advanced capabilities to scale and optimize your graph computing tasks. Find out more in our documentation and pricing pages. 
---

#  Enabling Memgraph Enterprise

Some of Memgraph's features are only available in Enterprise Edition. They are
present in the same binary but protected by a license key.

If you're interested in Memgraph Enterprise, you need to fill out the following
[form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSddH_XV000h58MhwJwwrUu2L3uTkejEDPqvstl6eMou_AW-yw/viewform) where one of the fields is the organization name.

After getting your license key, set the `organization.name` to the same
organization name you used for the license key, and the `enterprise.license` to
the license key you received by running the following queries: 

```
SET DATABASE SETTING 'organization.name' TO 'Organzation';
SET DATABASE SETTING 'enterprise.license' TO 'License';
```

To check the set values run: 

```opencypher
SHOW DATABASE SETTING 'organization.name';
SHOW DATABASE SETTING 'enterprise.license';
```

or:

```opencypher
SHOW DATABASE SETTINGS;
```

Commit message:

[main< ] Improve storage memory (#208)
* improving-storage-memory

* link from min req

* icons-CL

* monitoring-server

* ldap

* more-ldap

* ldap-finished

* enterprise-features

* performance

* new-sitemap

* latex

* Update package.json

* Update sitemap

---------

Co-authored-by: kgolubic <kgolubic@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Kruno Golubic <46486712+kgolubic@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/configuration/enabling-memgraph-enterprise.mdx, after:

---
title: Enabling Memgraph Enterprise
description: Learn how to enable Memgraph Enterprise and leverage its advanced capabilities to scale and optimize your graph computing tasks. Find out more in our documentation and pricing pages. 
---

#  Enabling Memgraph Enterprise

The following Memgraph features are only available in Enterprise Edition:
- [Audit log](/configuration/audit-log)
- [External auth module](/configuration/auth-module)
- [LDAP support](/configuration/auth-module#ldap)
- [Monitoring via HTTP server](/configuration/monitoring-server#monitoring-via-http-server-enterprise)
- [Multi-tenancy](/configuration/multi-tenancy)
- [Role-based access control](/configuration/security#role-based-access-control-enterprise)
- [Label-based access control](/configuration/security#label-based-access-control-enterprise)

 They are present in the same binary but protected by a license key.

If you're interested in Memgraph Enterprise, you need to fill out the following
[form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSddH_XV000h58MhwJwwrUu2L3uTkejEDPqvstl6eMou_AW-yw/viewform) where one of the fields is the organization name.

After getting your license key, set the `organization.name` to the same
organization name you used for the license key, and the `enterprise.license` to
the license key you received by running the following queries: 

```
SET DATABASE SETTING 'organization.name' TO 'Organzation';
SET DATABASE SETTING 'enterprise.license' TO 'License';
```

To check the set values run: 

```opencypher
SHOW DATABASE SETTING 'organization.name';
SHOW DATABASE SETTING 'enterprise.license';
```

or:

```opencypher
SHOW DATABASE SETTINGS;
```
