pages/configuration/logs.mdx, before:

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Logs

The default location of logs is `/var/log/memgraph/memgraph.log` but it can be
changed using the `--log-file` [configuration flag](/configuration/configuration-settings).

Memgraph tracks logs at various levels: TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR,
CRITICAL. By default, it is using the WARNING level, but you can change the
level using the []`--log-level`](/configuration/configuration-settings)
configuration file. 

If you are using Memgraph Lab, you can access the Logs from the interface if the
port 7444 was exposed when running the instance. 

## Access logs

If you installed Memgraph with Linux, logs can be found in the
`/var/log/memgraph` directory.

If you installed Memgraph using Docker:

<Steps>
    ### Find container ID
    
    Open a new terminal and find the `CONTAINER ID` of the Memgraph Docker
    container:

    ```plaintext
    docker ps
    ```

    ### Enter the container

    Run the following command:

    ```plaintext
    docker exec -it <CONTAINER ID> bash
    ```

    Be sure to replace the `<CONTAINER ID>` parameter.

    ### List the `/var/log/memgraph` directory
    
    Position yourself in the `/var/log/memgraph` directory.

    ```plaintext
    ls /var/log/memgraph
    ```

    ### List the content of the log 
    
    To list the content of the log, use the `cat /var/log/memgraph/<memgraph_date>.log` command.

    For example, if the `ls` command returned `memgraph_2022-03-04.log` you would
    list the contents using the following command:

    ```plaintext
    cat /var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log
    ```

    ### Save logs locally
    
    If you want to save the log to your computer, exit the container with
    `CTRL+D` or `exit`, place yourself in a directory where you want to save the copy and run
    the following command:

    ```plaintext
    docker cp  <memgraph_date>.log <CONTAINER ID>:/var/log/memgraph/<memgraph_date>.log
    ```

    For example, the following command will make a copy of the
    `memgraph_2022-03-04.log` file on the user's desktop:

    ```plaintext
    C:\Users\Vlasta\Desktop>docker cp memgraph_2022-03-04.log bb3de2634afe:/var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log.log
    ```
</Steps>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/configuration/logs.mdx, after:

---
title: Logs
description: Discover how to make the most of logs for monitoring and troubleshooting purposes. Explore the documentation page for Memgraph and harness the power of log management.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Logs

The default location of logs is `/var/log/memgraph/memgraph.log` but it can be
changed using the `--log-file` [configuration flag](/configuration/configuration-settings).

Memgraph tracks logs at various levels: TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR,
CRITICAL. By default, it is using the WARNING level, but you can change the
level using the []`--log-level`](/configuration/configuration-settings)
configuration file. 

If you are using Memgraph Lab, you can access the Logs from the interface if the
port 7444 was exposed when running the instance. 

## Access logs

If you installed Memgraph with Linux, logs can be found in the
`/var/log/memgraph` directory.

If you installed Memgraph using Docker:

<Steps>
    ### Find container ID
    
    Open a new terminal and find the `CONTAINER ID` of the Memgraph Docker
    container:

    ```plaintext
    docker ps
    ```

    ### Enter the container

    Run the following command:

    ```plaintext
    docker exec -it <CONTAINER ID> bash
    ```

    Be sure to replace the `<CONTAINER ID>` parameter.

    ### List the `/var/log/memgraph` directory
    
    Position yourself in the `/var/log/memgraph` directory.

    ```plaintext
    ls /var/log/memgraph
    ```

    ### List the content of the log 
    
    To list the content of the log, use the `cat /var/log/memgraph/<memgraph_date>.log` command.

    For example, if the `ls` command returned `memgraph_2022-03-04.log` you would
    list the contents using the following command:

    ```plaintext
    cat /var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log
    ```

    ### Save logs locally
    
    If you want to save the log to your computer, exit the container with
    `CTRL+D` or `exit`, place yourself in a directory where you want to save the copy and run
    the following command:

    ```plaintext
    docker cp  <memgraph_date>.log <CONTAINER ID>:/var/log/memgraph/<memgraph_date>.log
    ```

    For example, the following command will make a copy of the
    `memgraph_2022-03-04.log` file on the user's desktop:

    ```plaintext
    C:\Users\Vlasta\Desktop>docker cp memgraph_2022-03-04.log bb3de2634afe:/var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log.log
    ```
</Steps>
