pages/configuration/monitoring-server.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Monitoring server

Memgraph allows you to connect to its monitoring server via WebSocket and
receive certain information from it.  
For example, each log will be forwarded to all the connected clients.

## Connecting

To connect to Memgraph's WebSocket Server use the following URL:

```plaintext
ws://host:port
```

The default host used is `localhost` but that can be changed using the
`--monitoring-host` configuration flag.  
The default port used is `7444` but that can be changed using the
`--monitoring-port` configuration flag.

### Connecting with a secure connection (WSS)

As for the Bolt connection, SSL is also supported. Same flags are used for both
types of connection - `--bolt-cert-file` and `--bolt-key-file`.

If both of them are set, you will need to use the following URL to connect to
the WebSocket server:

```plaintext
wss://host:port
```

## Authentication

If the authentication is used, Memgraph won't send the message to a certain
connection until it's authenticated.

To authenticate, a JSON with the credentials in the following format is
required:

```json
{
  "username": "<username>",
  "password": "<password>"
}
```

If the credentials are valid, the connection will be made, and the client will
receive the messages. As a response, the client should receive the following
message:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "message": "User has been successfully authenticated!"
}
```

If they are invalid or the first message is in the invalid format, the
connection is dropped. As a response, the following message is sent:

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "message": "<error-message>"
}
```

<Callout type="info"> 

If authentication is not used (there are no users present in Memgraph),
no authentication message is expected, and no response will be returned. 

</Callout>

### Authorization (Enterprise)

Permission for connecting through WebSocket is controlled by the `WEBSOCKET`
privilege.

## Messages

### Logs

Each log that is written to the log file is forwarded to the connected clients
in the following format:

```json
{
  event: "log",
  level: "trace"|"debug"|"info"|"warning"|"error"|"critical",
  message: "<log-message>"
}
```

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/configuration/monitoring-server.mdx, after:

---
title: Monitoring server
description: Explore the documentation page for Memgraph and get insights into monitoring server stats. Learn how to optimize performance and enhance the overall stability of your graph project.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Monitoring server

Memgraph allows you to connect to its monitoring server via WebSocket and
receive certain information from it.  
For example, each log will be forwarded to all the connected clients.

## Connecting

To connect to Memgraph's WebSocket Server use the following URL:

```plaintext
ws://host:port
```

The default host used is `localhost` but that can be changed using the
`--monitoring-host` configuration flag.  
The default port used is `7444` but that can be changed using the
`--monitoring-port` configuration flag.

### Connecting with a secure connection (WSS)

As for the Bolt connection, SSL is also supported. Same flags are used for both
types of connection - `--bolt-cert-file` and `--bolt-key-file`.

If both of them are set, you will need to use the following URL to connect to
the WebSocket server:

```plaintext
wss://host:port
```

## Authentication

If the authentication is used, Memgraph won't send the message to a certain
connection until it's authenticated.

To authenticate, a JSON with the credentials in the following format is
required:

```json
{
  "username": "<username>",
  "password": "<password>"
}
```

If the credentials are valid, the connection will be made, and the client will
receive the messages. As a response, the client should receive the following
message:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "message": "User has been successfully authenticated!"
}
```

If they are invalid or the first message is in the invalid format, the
connection is dropped. As a response, the following message is sent:

```json
{
  "success": false,
  "message": "<error-message>"
}
```

<Callout type="info"> 

If authentication is not used (there are no users present in Memgraph),
no authentication message is expected, and no response will be returned. 

</Callout>

### Authorization (Enterprise)

Permission for connecting through WebSocket is controlled by the `WEBSOCKET`
privilege.

## Messages

### Logs

Each log that is written to the log file is forwarded to the connected clients
in the following format:

```json
{
  event: "log",
  level: "trace"|"debug"|"info"|"warning"|"error"|"critical",
  message: "<log-message>"
}
```
