pages/configuration/server-stats.md, before:

# Server stats

Memgraph supports multiple queries to get information about the instance that is
being queried.

## Instance version

To get the version of the instance being queried, run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW VERSION;
```

## Storage information

Running the following query will return certain information about the storage of
the current instance:

```cypher
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

The result will contain the following fields:

| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| vertex_count     | Number of vertices stored                                                                                                                    |
| edge_count       | Number of edges stored                                                                                                                       |
| average_degree   | Average number of relationships of a single node                                                                                                            |
| memory_usage     | Amount of RAM used reported by the OS (in bytes)                                                                                             |
| disk_usage       | Amount of disk space used by the data directory (in bytes)                                                                                   |
| memory_allocated | Amount of bytes allocated by the instance.<br/>For more info, check out the [memory control](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage).               |
| allocation_limit | Current allocation limit in bytes set for this instance.<br/>For more info, check out the [memory control](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage). |
| global_isolation_level | Current `global` isolation level.<br/>For more info, check out the [isolation levels](/fundamentals/transactions). |
| session_isolation_level | Current `session` isolation level. |
| next_session_isolation_level | Current `next` isolation level. |
| storage_mode | Current storage mode.<br/>For more info, check out the [storage modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage). |

## Build information

Running the following query will return certain information about the build type of
the current instance:

```cypher
SHOW BUILD INFO;
```

| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| build_type     | The optimization level the instance was built with.                                                                                                                    |

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/configuration/server-stats.md, after:

---
title: Server stats
description: Monitor the performance and health of your Memgraph server with confidence. Head over to Memgraph's documentation page to gain more insights into server stats.
---

# Server stats

Memgraph supports multiple queries to get information about the instance that is
being queried.

## Instance version

To get the version of the instance being queried, run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW VERSION;
```

## Storage information

Running the following query will return certain information about the storage of
the current instance:

```cypher
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

The result will contain the following fields:

| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| vertex_count     | Number of vertices stored                                                                                                                    |
| edge_count       | Number of edges stored                                                                                                                       |
| average_degree   | Average number of relationships of a single node                                                                                                            |
| memory_usage     | Amount of RAM used reported by the OS (in bytes)                                                                                             |
| disk_usage       | Amount of disk space used by the data directory (in bytes)                                                                                   |
| memory_allocated | Amount of bytes allocated by the instance.<br/>For more info, check out the [memory control](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage).               |
| allocation_limit | Current allocation limit in bytes set for this instance.<br/>For more info, check out the [memory control](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage). |
| global_isolation_level | Current `global` isolation level.<br/>For more info, check out the [isolation levels](/fundamentals/transactions). |
| session_isolation_level | Current `session` isolation level. |
| next_session_isolation_level | Current `next` isolation level. |
| storage_mode | Current storage mode.<br/>For more info, check out the [storage modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage). |

## Build information

Running the following query will return certain information about the build type of
the current instance:

```cypher
SHOW BUILD INFO;
```

| Field            | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| build_type     | The optimization level the instance was built with.                                                                                                                    |
