pages/configuration/system-configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: System Configuration
description: Explore the documentation page for Memgraph and get insights into system configuration options.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# System configuration

Enhancing Memgraph's performance can sometimes involve optimizing operating
system-level configurations. These adjustments primarily relate to the settings
governing resource allocation and process management.

## Handle numerous open files simultaneously

The `fs.file-max` parameter in Linux sets the maximum number of file handles
that the Linux kernel will allocate. This adjustment is important when the
system needs to handle numerous open files simultaneously. To adjust this
parameter, do the following:

<Steps>

{<h3>Open `/etc/sysctl.conf` in a text editor</h3>}
You need root privileges to
edit this file, which is used for configuring kernel parameters at runtime.


{<h3>Set the file handle limit</h3>}
Add the line `fs.file-max=100000` to
`sysctl.conf`. 

{<h3>Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and exit the text editor. Run
`sudo sysctl -p` to apply the changes immediately without rebooting.

{<h3>Verify the changes</h3>}
Run `sysctl fs.file-max` to check that the new
value has been applied. It should return `100000`.

</Steps>

## Increasing memory map areas

If users are working on a larger scale, there is a possibility that a
transaction is hanging because Memgraph tries to allocate memory and it couldn’t
as it was out of virtual memory space. User can adjust the `vm.max_map_count`
parameter to define the maximum number of memory map areas a process can have. 

### Recommended values for the `vm.max_map_count` parameter

For optimal system performance, the `vm.max_map_count` value should be chosen in
accordance with your system's RAM, aiming for approximately one memory map area
per 128 KB of system memory.

| Amount of RAM | `vm.max_map_count` value |
|---------------|-------------------------|
| 8GB - 32GB    | `vm.max_map_count=262144`|
| 32GB - 64GB   | `vm.max_map_count=524288`|
| 64GB - 128GB  | `vm.max_map_count=1048576`|
| 128GB - 256GB | `vm.max_map_count=2097152`|
| 256GB - 512GB | `vm.max_map_count=4194304`|
| 512GB - 1TB   | `vm.max_map_count=8388608`|
| 1TB - 1.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=12582912`|
| 1.5TB - 2TB   | `vm.max_map_count=16777216`|
| 2TB - 2.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=20971520`|
| 2.5TB - 3TB   | `vm.max_map_count=25165824`|
| 3TB - 3.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=29360128`|
| 3.5TB - 4TB   | `vm.max_map_count=33554432`|

### Immediate adjustment

For instance, if your recommended `vm.max_map_count` value is `262144`, run
`sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144` to immediately increase the memory map
area limit to 262,144. This change takes effect right away but lasts only until
the next reboot.

### Persistent adjustment

To ensure that changes to `vm.max_map_count` persist after a reboot, follow these steps:

<Steps>

{<h3>Edit `/etc/sysctl.conf`</h3>}
Add `vm.max_map_count=262144` to
`/etc/sysctl.conf`. Root privileges are required for editing.

{<h3>Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and run `sudo sysctl -p` to apply
them right away.

{<h3>Verify the changes</h3>}
Run `sysctl vm.max_map_count` to ensure the new
value is in effect. It should return `262144`.

</Steps>

## Addressing stack overflow issues

Stack overflow issues may occur due to a large query in Memgraph. To address
these issues, there are two possible approaches:

1. [Increase the stack size](#increase-the-stack-size)
2. [Split the query into smaller chunks](#split-the-query-into-smaller-chunks)

### Increase the stack size

#### With Docker

<Steps>
{<h3>Run Docker image</h3>}

Run the Memgraph using:

```bash
docker run --rm -it --name memgraph --ulimit stack=33554432:33554432 -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 memgraph/memgraph
```
Replace `33554432` with the required stack size in bytes.

{<h3>Verify the changes</h3>}
To check the new stack size limits, run:

```bash
docker exec memgraph sh -c "ulimit -a | grep stack"
```

This command should return `stack(kbytes) 32768`, confirming that the new stack size limits
have been applied. This value is equivalent of 32MB


</Steps>

#### Without Docker

<Steps>

{<h3>Open /etc/security/limits.conf in a text editor</h3>}
You need root privileges to edit this file. This file is used to set user or
group-specific soft and hard limits for various system resources.

{<h3>Set the stack size limit</h3>}
Add the following lines to set both the soft and hard stack size limits for the
user:

```
memgraph soft stack 32768
memgraph hard stack 32768
```

The value `32768` represents the stack size in kilobytes, equivalent to 32MB.

{<h3>Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and exit the text editor. For the changes to take effect, the
user may need to log out and then log back in.

{<h3>Verify the changes</h3>}
To check the new stack size limits, switch to the user account and run:

```
ulimit -s
```

This command should return `32768`, confirming that the new stack size limits
have been applied.

</Steps>

### Split the query into smaller chunks

To avoid stack overflow, divide your large query into smaller parts. This
approach requires careful handling of variables and node references across
queries. For creating edges between nodes created in separate queries, use the
`MATCH` clause to reference nodes from previous queries:

```cypher
// First Query
CREATE (a:Node {id: 1});
// Second Query
MATCH (a:Node {id: 1})
CREATE (b:Node {id: 2}), (a)-[:RELATES_TO]->(b);
```
This method reduces the stack size required for each query, potentially avoiding
the stack overflow issue.

Commit message:

Add missing linux installation pages (#672)
Add Linux installation pages. 
---------

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Kruno Golubic <46486712+kgolubic@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/configuration/system-configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: System Configuration
description: Explore the documentation page for Memgraph and get insights into system configuration options.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# System configuration

Enhancing Memgraph's performance can sometimes involve optimizing operating
system-level configurations. These adjustments primarily relate to the settings
governing resource allocation and process management.

The following configuration steps are written based on the Ubuntu 22.04 operating system. 
The steps may vary slightly depending on the Linux distribution you are using. 

## Handle numerous open files simultaneously

The `fs.file-max` parameter in Linux sets the maximum number of file handles
that the Linux kernel will allocate. This adjustment is important when the
system needs to handle numerous open files simultaneously. To adjust this
parameter, do the following:

<Steps>

{<h3>Open `/etc/sysctl.conf` in a text editor</h3>}
You need root privileges to
edit this file, which is used for configuring kernel parameters at runtime.


{<h3>Set the file handle limit</h3>}
Add the line `fs.file-max=100000` to
`sysctl.conf`. 

{<h3>Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and exit the text editor. Run
`sudo sysctl -p` to apply the changes immediately without rebooting.

{<h3>Verify the changes</h3>}
Run `sysctl fs.file-max` to check that the new
value has been applied. It should return `100000`.

</Steps>

## Increasing memory map areas

If users are working on a larger scale, there is a possibility that a
transaction is hanging because Memgraph tries to allocate memory and it couldn’t
as it was out of virtual memory space. User can adjust the `vm.max_map_count`
parameter to define the maximum number of memory map areas a process can have. 

### Recommended values for the `vm.max_map_count` parameter

For optimal system performance, the `vm.max_map_count` value should be chosen in
accordance with your system's RAM, aiming for approximately one memory map area
per 128 KB of system memory.

| Amount of RAM | `vm.max_map_count` value |
|---------------|-------------------------|
| 8GB - 32GB    | `vm.max_map_count=262144`|
| 32GB - 64GB   | `vm.max_map_count=524288`|
| 64GB - 128GB  | `vm.max_map_count=1048576`|
| 128GB - 256GB | `vm.max_map_count=2097152`|
| 256GB - 512GB | `vm.max_map_count=4194304`|
| 512GB - 1TB   | `vm.max_map_count=8388608`|
| 1TB - 1.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=12582912`|
| 1.5TB - 2TB   | `vm.max_map_count=16777216`|
| 2TB - 2.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=20971520`|
| 2.5TB - 3TB   | `vm.max_map_count=25165824`|
| 3TB - 3.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=29360128`|
| 3.5TB - 4TB   | `vm.max_map_count=33554432`|

### Immediate adjustment

For instance, if your recommended `vm.max_map_count` value is `262144`, run
`sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144` to immediately increase the memory map
area limit to 262,144. This change takes effect right away but lasts only until
the next reboot.

### Persistent adjustment

To ensure that changes to `vm.max_map_count` persist after a reboot, follow these steps:

<Steps>

{<h3>Edit `/etc/sysctl.conf`</h3>}
Add `vm.max_map_count=262144` to
`/etc/sysctl.conf`. Root privileges are required for editing.

{<h3>Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and run `sudo sysctl -p` to apply
them right away.

{<h3>Verify the changes</h3>}
Run `sysctl vm.max_map_count` to ensure the new
value is in effect. It should return `262144`.

</Steps>

## Addressing stack overflow issues

Stack overflow issues may occur due to a large query in Memgraph. To address
these issues, there are two possible approaches:

1. [Increase the stack size](#increase-the-stack-size)
2. [Split the query into smaller chunks](#split-the-query-into-smaller-chunks)

### Increase the stack size

#### With Docker

<Steps>
{<h3>Run Docker image</h3>}

Run the Memgraph using:

```bash
docker run --rm -it --name memgraph --ulimit stack=33554432:33554432 -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 memgraph/memgraph
```
Replace `33554432` with the required stack size in bytes.

{<h3>Verify the changes</h3>}
To check the new stack size limits, run:

```bash
docker exec memgraph sh -c "ulimit -a | grep stack"
```

This command should return `stack(kbytes) 32768`, confirming that the new stack size limits
have been applied. This value is equivalent of 32MB


</Steps>

#### Without Docker

<Steps>

{<h3>Open /etc/security/limits.conf in a text editor</h3>}
You need root privileges to edit this file. This file is used to set user or
group-specific soft and hard limits for various system resources.

{<h3>Set the stack size limit</h3>}
Add the following lines to set both the soft and hard stack size limits for the
user:

```
memgraph soft stack 32768
memgraph hard stack 32768
```

The value `32768` represents the stack size in kilobytes, equivalent to 32MB.

{<h3>Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and exit the text editor. For the changes to take effect, the
user may need to log out and then log back in.

{<h3>Verify the changes</h3>}
To check the new stack size limits, switch to the user account and run:

```
ulimit -s
```

This command should return `32768`, confirming that the new stack size limits
have been applied.

</Steps>

### Split the query into smaller chunks

To avoid stack overflow, divide your large query into smaller parts. This
approach requires careful handling of variables and node references across
queries. For creating edges between nodes created in separate queries, use the
`MATCH` clause to reference nodes from previous queries:

```cypher
// First Query
CREATE (a:Node {id: 1});
// Second Query
MATCH (a:Node {id: 1})
CREATE (b:Node {id: 2}), (a)-[:RELATES_TO]->(b);
```
This method reduces the stack size required for each query, potentially avoiding
the stack overflow issue.
