pages/custom-query-modules/python.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# How to create a query module in Python

The [Python API](/custom-query-modules/python/python-api) provided by Memgraph
lets you develop query modules. It is accompanied by the [mock
API](/custom-query-modules/python/mock-python-api), which makes it possible to
develop and test query modules for Memgraph without having to run a Memgraph
instance.

In this tutorial, we will learn how to develop a query module in
Python on the example of the **random walk algorithm**.

## Prerequisites

There are three options for installing and working with Memgraph MAGE:

1. **Pulling the `memgraph/memgraph-mage` image**: check the `Docker Hub`
   [installation guide](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage).
2. **Building a Docker image from the MAGE repository**: check the `Docker
   build` [installation guide](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage).
3. **Building MAGE from source**: check the `Build from source on Linux`
   [installation guide](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage).

## Developing a module

<Callout type="info">

These steps are the same for all MAGE installation options (_Docker Hub_,
_Docker build_ and _Build from source on Linux_).

</Callout>

Position yourself in the **MAGE repository** you cloned earlier. Specifically,
go in the `python` subdirectory and create a new file named `random_walk.py`.

```plaintext
mage
└── python
    └── random_walk.py

```

For coding the query module, we’ll use the
[`mgp`](https://github.com/memgraph/mgp) package that has the Memgraph Python
API including the key graph data structures:
[**Vertex**](https://github.com/memgraph/mgp/blob/main/mgp.py#L260) and
[**Edge**](https://github.com/memgraph/mgp/blob/main/mgp.py#L182).
To install `mgp`, run `pip install mgp`.

Here's the code for the random walk algorithm:

```python
import mgp
import random


@mgp.read_proc
def get_path(
    start: mgp.Vertex,
    length: int = 10,
) -> mgp.Record(path=mgp.Path):
    """Generates a random path of length `length` or less starting
    from the `start` vertex.

    :param mgp.Vertex start: The starting node of the walk.
    :param int length: The number of edges to traverse.
    :return: Random path.
    :rtype: mgp.Record(mgp.Path)
    """
    path = mgp.Path(start)
    vertex = start
    for _ in range(length):
        try:
            edge = random.choice(list(vertex.out_edges))
            path.expand(edge)
            vertex = edge.to_vertex
        except IndexError:
            break

    return mgp.Record(path=path)
```

The `get_path` is decorated with the `@mgp.read_proc` decorator, which tells
Memgraph it's a `read` procedure, meaning it won't make changes to the graph.
The path is created from the `start` node, and edges are appended to it
iteratively.

<Callout type="info"> 
If you need an additional Python library that is not already installed with
Memgraph, check out our [guide on how to install
it](/custom-query-modules/manage-query-modules).
</Callout>

### Terminate procedure execution

Just as the execution of a Cypher query can be terminated with [`TERMINATE
TRANSACTIONS
"id";`](/fundamentals/transactions) query,
the execution of the procedure can as well, if it takes too long to yield a
response or gets stuck in an infinite loop due to unpredicted input data.

Transaction ID is visible upon calling the SHOW TRANSACTIONS; query. 

In order to be able to terminate the procedure, it has to contain function
`ctx.check_must_abort()` which precedes crucial parts of the code, such as
`while` and `until` loops, or similar points where the procedure might become
costly.

Consider the following example:

```python
import mgp

@mgp.read_proc
def long_query(ctx: mgp.ProcCtx) -> mgp.Record(my_id=int):
    id = 1
    try:
        while True:
            if ctx.check_must_abort():
                break
            id += 1
    except mgp.AbortError:
        return mgp.Record(my_id=id)
```

The `mgp.AbortError:` ensures that the correct message about termination is sent
to the session where the procedure was originally run. 

## Importing, querying and testing a module

Now in order to import, query and test a module, check out the [following
page](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms).

Feel free to create an issue or open a pull request on our [GitHub
repo](https://github.com/memgraph/mage) to speed up the development.<br/>
Also, don't forget to throw us a star on GitHub. :star:

## Working with the mock API

The
[mock Python API](/custom-query-modules/python/mock-python-api)
lets you develop and test query modules for Memgraph without having to run a
Memgraph instance. As it’s compatible with the Python API you can add modules
developed with it to Memgraph as-is, without having to refactor your code.

The documentation on importing the mock API and running query modules with it
is available
[here](/custom-query-modules/python/mock-python-api#using-the-mock-api),
accompanied by examples.

## Managing Memgraph's Python environment

After some time, any production system requires updates for the packages it uses. For example, when developing a new query module that requires the latest `networkx` version. 

If Memgraph is already deployed somewhere with an installed `networkx` package, you would probably like to use some package manager, e.g. pip or conda, to delete the old `networkx`, and install a new `networkx` package. You definitely wouldn't want to redeploy the whole Memgraph just because of one Python package.

However, Python caches all modules, packages and the compiled bytecode, so this procedure cannot work out of the box. So after installing the new package, you need to use the utility procedure `mg.load_all()`. 

So the whole process looks like this:

Uninstall the old package:
```python
pip uninstall networkx
```
Install a new package:
```python
pip install networkx=<new_version>
```
Reload all query modules:
```cypher
CALL mg.load_all();
```

Commit message:

Add title metadata to the pages

pages/custom-query-modules/python.mdx, after:

---
title: How to create a query module in Python
description: 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# How to create a query module in Python

The [Python API](/custom-query-modules/python/python-api) provided by Memgraph
lets you develop query modules. It is accompanied by the [mock
API](/custom-query-modules/python/mock-python-api), which makes it possible to
develop and test query modules for Memgraph without having to run a Memgraph
instance.

In this tutorial, we will learn how to develop a query module in
Python on the example of the **random walk algorithm**.

## Prerequisites

There are three options for installing and working with Memgraph MAGE:

1. **Pulling the `memgraph/memgraph-mage` image**: check the `Docker Hub`
   [installation guide](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage).
2. **Building a Docker image from the MAGE repository**: check the `Docker
   build` [installation guide](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage).
3. **Building MAGE from source**: check the `Build from source on Linux`
   [installation guide](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage).

## Developing a module

<Callout type="info">

These steps are the same for all MAGE installation options (_Docker Hub_,
_Docker build_ and _Build from source on Linux_).

</Callout>

Position yourself in the **MAGE repository** you cloned earlier. Specifically,
go in the `python` subdirectory and create a new file named `random_walk.py`.

```plaintext
mage
└── python
    └── random_walk.py

```

For coding the query module, we’ll use the
[`mgp`](https://github.com/memgraph/mgp) package that has the Memgraph Python
API including the key graph data structures:
[**Vertex**](https://github.com/memgraph/mgp/blob/main/mgp.py#L260) and
[**Edge**](https://github.com/memgraph/mgp/blob/main/mgp.py#L182).
To install `mgp`, run `pip install mgp`.

Here's the code for the random walk algorithm:

```python
import mgp
import random


@mgp.read_proc
def get_path(
    start: mgp.Vertex,
    length: int = 10,
) -> mgp.Record(path=mgp.Path):
    """Generates a random path of length `length` or less starting
    from the `start` vertex.

    :param mgp.Vertex start: The starting node of the walk.
    :param int length: The number of edges to traverse.
    :return: Random path.
    :rtype: mgp.Record(mgp.Path)
    """
    path = mgp.Path(start)
    vertex = start
    for _ in range(length):
        try:
            edge = random.choice(list(vertex.out_edges))
            path.expand(edge)
            vertex = edge.to_vertex
        except IndexError:
            break

    return mgp.Record(path=path)
```

The `get_path` is decorated with the `@mgp.read_proc` decorator, which tells
Memgraph it's a `read` procedure, meaning it won't make changes to the graph.
The path is created from the `start` node, and edges are appended to it
iteratively.

<Callout type="info"> 
If you need an additional Python library that is not already installed with
Memgraph, check out our [guide on how to install
it](/custom-query-modules/manage-query-modules).
</Callout>

### Terminate procedure execution

Just as the execution of a Cypher query can be terminated with [`TERMINATE
TRANSACTIONS
"id";`](/fundamentals/transactions) query,
the execution of the procedure can as well, if it takes too long to yield a
response or gets stuck in an infinite loop due to unpredicted input data.

Transaction ID is visible upon calling the SHOW TRANSACTIONS; query. 

In order to be able to terminate the procedure, it has to contain function
`ctx.check_must_abort()` which precedes crucial parts of the code, such as
`while` and `until` loops, or similar points where the procedure might become
costly.

Consider the following example:

```python
import mgp

@mgp.read_proc
def long_query(ctx: mgp.ProcCtx) -> mgp.Record(my_id=int):
    id = 1
    try:
        while True:
            if ctx.check_must_abort():
                break
            id += 1
    except mgp.AbortError:
        return mgp.Record(my_id=id)
```

The `mgp.AbortError:` ensures that the correct message about termination is sent
to the session where the procedure was originally run. 

## Importing, querying and testing a module

Now in order to import, query and test a module, check out the [following
page](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms).

Feel free to create an issue or open a pull request on our [GitHub
repo](https://github.com/memgraph/mage) to speed up the development.<br/>
Also, don't forget to throw us a star on GitHub. :star:

## Working with the mock API

The
[mock Python API](/custom-query-modules/python/mock-python-api)
lets you develop and test query modules for Memgraph without having to run a
Memgraph instance. As it’s compatible with the Python API you can add modules
developed with it to Memgraph as-is, without having to refactor your code.

The documentation on importing the mock API and running query modules with it
is available
[here](/custom-query-modules/python/mock-python-api#using-the-mock-api),
accompanied by examples.

## Managing Memgraph's Python environment

After some time, any production system requires updates for the packages it uses. For example, when developing a new query module that requires the latest `networkx` version. 

If Memgraph is already deployed somewhere with an installed `networkx` package, you would probably like to use some package manager, e.g. pip or conda, to delete the old `networkx`, and install a new `networkx` package. You definitely wouldn't want to redeploy the whole Memgraph just because of one Python package.

However, Python caches all modules, packages and the compiled bytecode, so this procedure cannot work out of the box. So after installing the new package, you need to use the utility procedure `mg.load_all()`. 

So the whole process looks like this:

Uninstall the old package:
```python
pip uninstall networkx
```
Install a new package:
```python
pip install networkx=<new_version>
```
Reload all query modules:
```cypher
CALL mg.load_all();
```
