pages/querying/exploring-datasets/analyzing-ted-talks.md, before:

# Analyzing TED Talks

This article is a part of a series intended to show how to use Memgraph on
real-world data to retrieve some interesting and useful information.

We highly recommend checking out the other articles from this series which are
listed in our [tutorial overview section](/), where you
can also find instructions on how to start with the tutorial.

## Introduction

[TED](https://www.ted.com/) is a nonprofit organization devoted to spreading
ideas, usually in the form of short, powerful talks. Today, TED talks are
influential videos from expert speakers on almost all topics &mdash; from
science to business to global issues. Here we present a small dataset which
consists of 97 talks, show how to model this data as a graph and demonstrate a
few example queries.

## Data Model

- Each TED talk has a main speaker, so we identify two types of nodes &mdash;
  `Talk` and `Speaker`.
- We add an edge of type `Gave` pointing to a `Talk` from its main `Speaker`.
- Each speaker has a name so we can add property `name` to `Speaker` node.
- We'll add properties `name`, `title` and `description` to node `Talk`.
- Each talk is given in a specific TED event, so we can create node `Event` with
  property `name` and relationship `InEvent` between talk and event.
- Talks are tagged with keywords to facilitate searching, hence we add node
  `Tag` with property `name` and relationship `HasTag` between talk and tag.
- Users give ratings to each talk by selecting up to three predefined string
  values. Therefore we add node `Rating` with these values as property `name`
  and relationship`HasRating` with property `user_count` between talk and rating
  nodes.

![TED](/pages/querying/exploring-datasets/analyzing-ted-talks/TED_metagraph.png)

## Exploring the dataset

You have two options for exploring this dataset. If you just want to take a look
at the dataset and try out a few queries, open [Memgraph
Playground](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/ted-talks) and continue with
the tutorial there. Note that you will not be able to execute `write`
operations.

On the other hand, if you would like to add changes to the dataset, download the
[Memgraph Platform](https://memgraph.com/download#memgraph-platform). Once you
have it up and running, open Memgraph Lab web application within the browser on
[`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000) and navigate to `Datasets` in the
sidebar. From there, choose the dataset `TED talks` and continue with the
tutorial.

## Example queries using Cypher

In the queries below, we are using [Cypher](/querying) to query Memgraph
via the console.

**1\.** Find all talks given by specific speaker:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker {name: "Hans Rosling"})-[:Gave]->(m:Talk)
RETURN m.title;
```

**2\.** Find the top 20 speakers with most talks given:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker)-[:Gave]->(m)
RETURN n.name, count(m) AS talksGiven
ORDER BY talksGiven
DESC LIMIT 20;
```

**3\.** Find talks related by tag to specific talk and count them:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Talk {name: "Michael Green: Why we should build wooden skyscrapers"})
      -[:HasTag]->(t:Tag)<-[:HasTag]-(m:Talk)
WITH *
ORDER BY m.name
RETURN t.name, collect(m.name) AS names, count(m) AS talksCount
ORDER BY talksCount DESC;
```

**4\.** Find 20 most frequently used tags:

```cypher
MATCH (t:Tag)<-[:HasTag]-(n:Talk)
RETURN t.name AS tag, count(n) AS talksCount
ORDER BY talksCount DESC, tag
LIMIT 20;
```

**5\.** Find 20 talks most rated as "Funny". If you want to query by other
   ratings, possible values are: Obnoxious, Jaw-dropping, OK, Persuasive,
   Beautiful, Confusing, Longwinded, Unconvincing, Fascinating, Ingenious,
   Courageous, Funny, Informative and Inspiring.

```cypher
MATCH (r:Rating {name: "Funny"})<-[e:HasRating]-(m:Talk)
RETURN m.name, e.user_count
ORDER BY e.user_count DESC
LIMIT 20;
```

**6\.** Find inspiring talks and their speakers from the field of technology:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Talk)-[:HasTag]->(m:Tag {name: "technology"})
MATCH (n)-[r:HasRating]->(p:Rating {name: "Inspiring"})
MATCH (n)<-[:Gave]-(s:Speaker)
WHERE r.user_count > 1000
RETURN n.title, s.name, r.user_count
ORDER BY r.user_count DESC;
```

**7\.** Now let's see one real-world example &mdash; how to make a real-time
   recommendation. If you've just watched a talk from a certain speaker (e.g.
   Hans Rosling) you might be interested in finding more talks from the same
   speaker on a similar topic:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker {name: "Hans Rosling"})-[:Gave]->(m:Talk)
MATCH (t:Talk {title: "New insights on poverty"})
      -[:HasTag]->(tag:Tag)<-[:HasTag]-(m)
WITH *
ORDER BY tag.name
RETURN m.title AS title, collect(tag.name) AS names, count(tag) AS tagCount
ORDER BY tagCount DESC, title;
```

The following few queries are focused on extracting information about TED
events.

**8\.** Find how many talks were given per event:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Event)<-[:InEvent]-(t:Talk)
RETURN n.name AS event, count(t) AS talksCount
ORDER BY talksCount DESC, event
LIMIT 20;
```

**9\.** Find the most popular tags in the specific event:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Event {name:"TED2006"})<-[:InEvent]-(t:Talk)-[:HasTag]->(tag:Tag)
RETURN tag.name AS tag, count(t) AS talksCount
ORDER BY talksCount DESC, tag
LIMIT 20;
```

**10\.** Discover which speakers participated in more than 2 events:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker)-[:Gave]->(t:Talk)-[:InEvent]->(e:Event)
WITH n, count(e) AS eventsCount
WHERE eventsCount > 2
RETURN n.name AS speaker, eventsCount
ORDER BY eventsCount DESC, speaker;
```

**11\.** For each speaker search for other speakers that participated in same
events:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker)-[:Gave]->()-[:InEvent]->(e:Event)<-[:InEvent]-()<-[:Gave]-(m:Speaker)
WHERE n.name != m.name
WITH DISTINCT n, m
ORDER BY m.name
RETURN n.name AS speaker, collect(m.name) AS others
ORDER BY speaker;
```

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/querying/exploring-datasets/analyzing-ted-talks.md, after:

---
title: Analyzing TED Talks
description: Analyze TED talks with Memgraph and transform them into a visualization. Learn more about tutorializing the graph analysis of the TED talks dataset with Memgraph.
---

# Analyzing TED Talks

This article is a part of a series intended to show how to use Memgraph on
real-world data to retrieve some interesting and useful information.

We highly recommend checking out the other articles from this series which are
listed in our [tutorial overview section](/), where you
can also find instructions on how to start with the tutorial.

## Introduction

[TED](https://www.ted.com/) is a nonprofit organization devoted to spreading
ideas, usually in the form of short, powerful talks. Today, TED talks are
influential videos from expert speakers on almost all topics &mdash; from
science to business to global issues. Here we present a small dataset which
consists of 97 talks, show how to model this data as a graph and demonstrate a
few example queries.

## Data Model

- Each TED talk has a main speaker, so we identify two types of nodes &mdash;
  `Talk` and `Speaker`.
- We add an edge of type `Gave` pointing to a `Talk` from its main `Speaker`.
- Each speaker has a name so we can add property `name` to `Speaker` node.
- We'll add properties `name`, `title` and `description` to node `Talk`.
- Each talk is given in a specific TED event, so we can create node `Event` with
  property `name` and relationship `InEvent` between talk and event.
- Talks are tagged with keywords to facilitate searching, hence we add node
  `Tag` with property `name` and relationship `HasTag` between talk and tag.
- Users give ratings to each talk by selecting up to three predefined string
  values. Therefore we add node `Rating` with these values as property `name`
  and relationship`HasRating` with property `user_count` between talk and rating
  nodes.

![TED](/pages/querying/exploring-datasets/analyzing-ted-talks/TED_metagraph.png)

## Exploring the dataset

You have two options for exploring this dataset. If you just want to take a look
at the dataset and try out a few queries, open [Memgraph
Playground](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/ted-talks) and continue with
the tutorial there. Note that you will not be able to execute `write`
operations.

On the other hand, if you would like to add changes to the dataset, download the
[Memgraph Platform](https://memgraph.com/download#memgraph-platform). Once you
have it up and running, open Memgraph Lab web application within the browser on
[`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000) and navigate to `Datasets` in the
sidebar. From there, choose the dataset `TED talks` and continue with the
tutorial.

## Example queries using Cypher

In the queries below, we are using [Cypher](/querying) to query Memgraph
via the console.

**1\.** Find all talks given by specific speaker:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker {name: "Hans Rosling"})-[:Gave]->(m:Talk)
RETURN m.title;
```

**2\.** Find the top 20 speakers with most talks given:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker)-[:Gave]->(m)
RETURN n.name, count(m) AS talksGiven
ORDER BY talksGiven
DESC LIMIT 20;
```

**3\.** Find talks related by tag to specific talk and count them:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Talk {name: "Michael Green: Why we should build wooden skyscrapers"})
      -[:HasTag]->(t:Tag)<-[:HasTag]-(m:Talk)
WITH *
ORDER BY m.name
RETURN t.name, collect(m.name) AS names, count(m) AS talksCount
ORDER BY talksCount DESC;
```

**4\.** Find 20 most frequently used tags:

```cypher
MATCH (t:Tag)<-[:HasTag]-(n:Talk)
RETURN t.name AS tag, count(n) AS talksCount
ORDER BY talksCount DESC, tag
LIMIT 20;
```

**5\.** Find 20 talks most rated as "Funny". If you want to query by other
   ratings, possible values are: Obnoxious, Jaw-dropping, OK, Persuasive,
   Beautiful, Confusing, Longwinded, Unconvincing, Fascinating, Ingenious,
   Courageous, Funny, Informative and Inspiring.

```cypher
MATCH (r:Rating {name: "Funny"})<-[e:HasRating]-(m:Talk)
RETURN m.name, e.user_count
ORDER BY e.user_count DESC
LIMIT 20;
```

**6\.** Find inspiring talks and their speakers from the field of technology:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Talk)-[:HasTag]->(m:Tag {name: "technology"})
MATCH (n)-[r:HasRating]->(p:Rating {name: "Inspiring"})
MATCH (n)<-[:Gave]-(s:Speaker)
WHERE r.user_count > 1000
RETURN n.title, s.name, r.user_count
ORDER BY r.user_count DESC;
```

**7\.** Now let's see one real-world example &mdash; how to make a real-time
   recommendation. If you've just watched a talk from a certain speaker (e.g.
   Hans Rosling) you might be interested in finding more talks from the same
   speaker on a similar topic:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker {name: "Hans Rosling"})-[:Gave]->(m:Talk)
MATCH (t:Talk {title: "New insights on poverty"})
      -[:HasTag]->(tag:Tag)<-[:HasTag]-(m)
WITH *
ORDER BY tag.name
RETURN m.title AS title, collect(tag.name) AS names, count(tag) AS tagCount
ORDER BY tagCount DESC, title;
```

The following few queries are focused on extracting information about TED
events.

**8\.** Find how many talks were given per event:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Event)<-[:InEvent]-(t:Talk)
RETURN n.name AS event, count(t) AS talksCount
ORDER BY talksCount DESC, event
LIMIT 20;
```

**9\.** Find the most popular tags in the specific event:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Event {name:"TED2006"})<-[:InEvent]-(t:Talk)-[:HasTag]->(tag:Tag)
RETURN tag.name AS tag, count(t) AS talksCount
ORDER BY talksCount DESC, tag
LIMIT 20;
```

**10\.** Discover which speakers participated in more than 2 events:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker)-[:Gave]->(t:Talk)-[:InEvent]->(e:Event)
WITH n, count(e) AS eventsCount
WHERE eventsCount > 2
RETURN n.name AS speaker, eventsCount
ORDER BY eventsCount DESC, speaker;
```

**11\.** For each speaker search for other speakers that participated in same
events:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Speaker)-[:Gave]->()-[:InEvent]->(e:Event)<-[:InEvent]-()<-[:Gave]-(m:Speaker)
WHERE n.name != m.name
WITH DISTINCT n, m
ORDER BY m.name
RETURN n.name AS speaker, collect(m.name) AS others
ORDER BY speaker;
```
