pages/querying/exploring-datasets/football-transfers.md, before:

# Football transfers

This article is a part of a series intended to show how to use Memgraph on
real-world data to retrieve some interesting and useful information.

We highly recommend checking out the other articles from this series which are
listed in our [tutorial overview section](/), where you
can also find instructions on how to start with the tutorial.

## Introduction

Football is a word that could mean one of several sports. In this article, we
are referring to the best-known type of football, association football. In North
America, South Africa, and Australia, to avoid confusion with other types of
football, it is called "soccer".

In professional football, a transfer is the action taken whenever a player under
contract moves between teams. It refers to the transferring of a player's
registration from one association football club to another. In general, the
players can only be transferred during a transfer window and according to the
rules. The transfer window is a period during the year in which a football team
can transfer players. There are two transfer windows per season: winter and
summer windows. Winter transfer windows are throughout January while the summer
windows are from July till August.

Usually some sort of compensation is paid for the player's rights, which is
known as a transfer fee. When a player moves from one team to another, their old
contract is terminated and they negotiate a new one with the team they are
moving to. In some cases, however, transfers can function similarly to player
trades, as teams can offer another player on their team as part of the fee.

As you may presume, there is a lot of money involved in the game of transfers.
According to FIFA, in 2018, from January till September, there were 15,626
international transfers with fees totaling US$ 7.5 billion dollars.

Football season is that part of the year during which football matches are held.
A typical football season is generally from August/September to May, although in
some countries, such as Northern Europe or East Asia, the season starts in the
spring and finishes in autumn due to weather conditions encountered during the
winter.

## Data model

In this article, we will present a graph model of football transfers from season
1992/1993 to season 2019/2020 in following five leagues:

- English Premier League
- French Ligue 1
- German Bundesliga
- Italian Serie A
- Spanish Primera Division

The model consists of the following nodes:

- `Team` - a football team with a property `name` (e.g. `"FC Barcelona"`).
- `Player` - a professional football player, contains properties `name` (e.g.
  `"Luka Modric"`) and `position` (e.g. `"Central Midfield"`).
- `League` - a football league where multiple teams play in, contains one
  property `name` (e.g. `"Premier League"`).
- `Transfer` - represents football transfer that connects a `Player` that is
  transferred from one `Team` to another `Team` within a `Season`. Transfer
  contains one optional property `fee` (e.g. `80.50`) that represents a transfer
  fee in millions of euros and one regular property `year` (e.g. `1995`) that
  represents how old was a player when the transfer occurred.
- `Season` - a football season with two properties `name` (e.g. `"2019/2020"`)
  and `year` (e.g. `2019`).

Nodes are connected with the following edges:

- `:TRANSFERRED_FROM` - connects team node `Team` to node `Transfer`
  representing a team where the player is being transferred from.
- `:TRANSFERRED_TO` - connects node `Transfer` to team node `Team` where player
  is being transferred to.
- `:TRANSFERRED_IN` - connects player node `Player` to node `Transfer`
  representing a player that was transferred in the connected transfer.
- `:HAPPENED_IN` - connects node `Transfer` to the node `Season` in which
  transfer has happened.
- `:PLAYS_IN` - connects node `Team` that plays in league node `League`.

![Football transfers](/pages/querying/exploring-datasets/football-transfers/football_transfers_metagraph.png)

## Exploring the dataset

You have two options for exploring this dataset. If you just want to take a look
at the dataset and try out a few queries, open [Memgraph
Playground](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/football-transfers) and
continue with the tutorial there. Note that you will not be able to execute
`write` operations.

On the other hand, if you would like to add changes to the dataset, download the
[Memgraph Platform](https://memgraph.com/download#memgraph-platform). Once you
have it up and running, open Memgraph Lab web application within the browser on
[`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000) and navigate to `Datasets` in the
sidebar. From there, choose the dataset `Football player's transfers` and
continue with the tutorial.

## Example queries using Cypher

In the queries below, we are using [Cypher](/querying) to query Memgraph
via the console.

Now when we have a dataset of football transfers from season 1992/1993 to season
2019/2020 loaded in Memgraph, we are ready to gain some information out of it.

**1\.** Let's say you want to find 20 most expensive transfers. As mentioned
before, transfers fees are represented in millions of euros.

```cypher
MATCH (t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(p:Player)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL
RETURN round(t.fee) + 'M €' AS transfer_fee, p.name AS player_name
ORDER BY t.fee DESC
LIMIT 20;
```

**2\.** What about finding the most expensive transfer per season?

```cypher
MATCH (s:Season)<-[:HAPPENED_IN]-(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(:Player)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL
WITH s.name AS season_name, max(t.fee) AS max_fee
RETURN round(max_fee) + 'M €' AS max_transfer_fee, season_name
ORDER BY max_fee DESC;
```

**3\.** How about finding out which teams your favorite player has played for?
If you wish to check the teams for another player, replace "Sime Vrsaljko" with
the name of your favorite player.

```cypher
MATCH (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->(t:Transfer)-[]-(team:Team)
WHERE player.name = "Sime Vrsaljko"
WITH DISTINCT team
RETURN team.name AS team_name;
```

You might wonder why we haven't specified a direction in our Cypher traversal
with `(:Transfer)-[]-(:Team)`. As we want to find the teams that player was
transferred from (`(:Transfer)<-[]-(:Team)`) and transferred to
(`(:Transfer)-[]->(:Team)`), we want to collect both inbound and outbound
connections. In order to do so, we omit the arrow (`>`, `<`) in our Cypher
command.

**4\.** Find players that were transferred to and played for FC Barcelona and
count them by the player game position.

```cypher
MATCH (team:Team)<-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]-(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(player:Player)
WHERE team.name = "FC Barcelona"
WITH DISTINCT player
RETURN player.position AS player_position, count(player) AS position_count, collect(player.name) AS player_names
ORDER BY position_count DESC;
```

**5\.** Football has seen a lot of rivalries develop between clubs during its
rich and long history. One of the most famous ones is between fierce rivals FC
Barcelona and Real Madrid. There is a term, El Clasico, for a match between
those two teams. Let's find all the transfers between FC Barcelona and Real
Madrid.

```cypher
MATCH (m:Team)-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(t:Transfer)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]-(n:Team),
      (t)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(p:Player)
WHERE
    (m.name = "FC Barcelona" AND n.name = "Real Madrid") OR
    (m.name = "Real Madrid" AND n.name = "FC Barcelona")
RETURN m.name AS transferred_from_team, p.name AS player_name, n.name AS transfered_to_team;
```

**6\.** FC Barcelona is one of the most valuable football clubs in the world.
Players often want to play there as long as possible. But what about those
players who didn't fit in well? Where do they go?

```cypher
MATCH (m:Team)-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]->(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(p:Player),
      (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(n:Team)
WHERE m.name = "FC Barcelona"
RETURN n.name AS team_name, collect(p.name) AS player_names, count(p) AS number_of_players
ORDER BY number_of_players DESC;
```

**7\.** What are the teams that most players went to in season 2003/2004? The
results may surprise you.

```cypher
MATCH (season:Season)<-[:HAPPENED_IN]-(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(player:Player),
      (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(team:Team)
WHERE season.name = "2003/2004"
WITH DISTINCT player, team
RETURN team.name AS team_name, count(player) AS number_of_players, collect(player.name) AS player_names
ORDER BY number_of_players DESC, team_name
LIMIT 20;
```

**8\.** In great teams, there are players who seem to be irreplaceable. When
they leave, the club board is often struggling to find a proper replacement for
them. Let's find out which positions club "FC Barcelona" spent money on in
season 2015/2016.

```cypher
MATCH (:Team)-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]->(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(player:Player),
      (s:Season)<-[:HAPPENED_IN]-(t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(m:Team)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL AND
      s.name = "2015/2016" AND
      m.name = "FC Barcelona"
RETURN collect(player.name) AS player_names, player.position AS player_position, round(sum(t.fee)) + 'M €' AS money_spent_per_position
ORDER BY money_spent_per_position DESC;
```

**9\.** But what was the highest transfer amount per position FC Barcelona spent
on in seasons from 1992/1993 till 2019/2020?

```cypher
MATCH (:Team)-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]->(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(player:Player),
      (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(team:Team)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL AND
      team.name = "FC Barcelona"
RETURN max(t.fee) + 'M €' AS max_money_spent, player.position AS player_position
ORDER BY max_money_spent DESC;
```

**10\.** Now, let's find who were the most expensive players per position in
team FC Barcelona.

```cypher
MATCH (team:Team)<-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]-(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(p:Player),
      (t)-[:HAPPENED_IN]->(s:Season)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL AND
      team.name = "FC Barcelona"
WITH p.position AS player_position, max(t.fee) AS max_fee
MATCH (p:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->(t:Transfer)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(team:Team)
WHERE p.position = player_position AND
      t.fee = max_fee AND
      team.name = "FC Barcelona"
RETURN max_fee, player_position, collect(p.name) AS player_names
ORDER BY max_fee DESC;
```

If we needed to get the maximum transfer fee per position we would only need
first `MATCH` in the above query, making it way shorter. In order to match
players with maximum transfer fees per position our query is split into two
parts:

- First `MATCH` in the query finds the maximum transfer fee per position.
- Second `MATCH` in the query is finding all players transferred to "FC
  Barcelona" with the same position and transfer fee equal to the maximum one
  from the previous query.

**11\.** If you want to find all player transfers between two clubs you can do
that also.

```cypher
MATCH (t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-
      (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->
      (:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(team:Team)
WHERE team.name = "FC Barcelona"
WITH player, collect(t) AS transfers
MATCH player_path = (a:Team)
      -[*bfs..10 (e, n | 'Team' IN labels(n) OR ('Transfer' IN labels(n) AND n IN transfers) )]->(b:Team)
WHERE a.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      b.name = "Sevilla FC"
UNWIND nodes(player_path) AS player_path_node
WITH player_path_node, player
WHERE 'Team' IN labels(player_path_node)
WITH collect(player_path_node.name) AS team_names, player
RETURN player.name AS player_name, team_names;
```

In the above query, we will find all players that transferred from "FC
Barcelona" to "Sevilla FC". It will include direct transfers (from "FC
Barcelona" to "Sevilla FC") and indirect transfers (from "FC Barcelona" to one
or multiple other clubs and lastly "Sevilla FC"). That is the reason why we
started first `MATCH` with searching for all players and transfers that were
transferred from "FC Barcelona". Next up is the player transfer traversal
through transfers and teams all the way to the "Sevilla FC".

For this part, we used the breadth-first search (BFS) algorithm with lambda
filter `(e, v | condition)`. It's a function that takes an edge symbol `e` and a
vertex symbol `v` and decides whether this edge and vertex pair should be
considered valid in breadth-first expansion by returning true or false (or
Null). In the above example, lambda is returning true if a vertex has a label
`Team` or a label `Transfer`. If a vertex is `Transfer` there is an additional
check where we need to make sure the transfer is one of the transfers of players
transferred from "FC Barcelona". It needs to be either `Team` or `Transfer`
because to get from a team that made the transfer to the team where the player
is being transferred to, we need to go through the node `Transfer` that connects
those two teams. So the traversal from "FC Barcelona" to "Sevilla FC" will go
through the following nodes: Transfer, Team, Transfer, Team, Transfer, etc.

**12\.** In the previous query, we found all transfers between two clubs. Let's
filter out direct ones now. We need to add a small change in the query to only
get indirect transfers.

```cypher
MATCH (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(barca:Team),
      (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(sevilla:Team)
WHERE barca.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      sevilla.name = "Sevilla FC"
WITH collect(player) AS players_direct_to_sevilla
MATCH (t:Transfer)<-[e:TRANSFERRED_IN]-
      (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->
      (:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(barca:Team)
WHERE barca.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      NOT player IN players_direct_to_sevilla
WITH player, collect(t) AS transfers
MATCH path_indirect = (a:Team)
      -[*bfs..10 (e, n | 'Team' IN labels(n) OR ('Transfer' IN labels(n) AND n IN transfers) )]->(b:Team)
WHERE a.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      b.name = "Sevilla FC"
UNWIND nodes(path_indirect) AS player_path_node
WITH player_path_node, player
WHERE 'Team' IN labels(player_path_node)
WITH collect(player_path_node.name) AS team_names, player
RETURN player.name AS player_name, team_names;
```

In this query, the only difference is that we need to find players who had a
direct transfer to Sevilla first. In the next `MATCH` we use that information to
check whether players that were transferred from FC Barcelona, didn't have
direct transfer to Sevilla FC.

If you are running this in [Memgraph Lab](https://memgraph.com/product/lab) you
can change the query a bit in order to get all nodes and edges required for a
visual graph representation of players transferring through teams.

```cypher
MATCH (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->
      (t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(barca:Team)
MATCH (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(sevilla:Team)
WHERE barca.name="FC Barcelona" AND
      sevilla.name="Sevilla FC"
WITH collect(player) AS players_direct_to_sevilla
MATCH (t:Transfer)<-[e:TRANSFERRED_IN]-
      (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->
      (tr:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(barca:Team)
WHERE barca.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      NOT player IN players_direct_to_sevilla
WITH player, collect(t) AS transfers, collect(e) AS player_to_transfers
MATCH path_indirect = (a:Team)
      -[*bfs..10 (e, n | 'Team' IN labels(n) OR ('Transfer' IN labels(n) AND n IN transfers) )]->(b:Team)
WHERE a.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      b.name = "Sevilla FC"
UNWIND player_to_transfers AS player_to_transfer
RETURN player, player_to_transfer, path_indirect;
```

MemgraphLab graph visual representation draws nodes and edges from query
results. If you only have nodes in the results then only nodes will be drawn on
the canvas. If you have both nodes and edges present in the results, MemgraphLab
is able to draw nodes and connections between them because it has all the
information relevant for drawing.

In order to change the query to accommodate that, we need to change the types of
results that are returned and collect any missing edge or node information
throughout the query. The first part of the query where we check whether the
player was transferred from "FC Barcelona" to "Sevilla FC" stays the same. In
order to draw all connections from players to transfers, we need to collect
edges connecting them. That is the reason why we are collecting edges `e`
through variable `player_to_transfers` because it contains information on which
player is connected to which transfer. With that in mind, our results contain
all the information for the graph visual:

- A path that contains `Transfer` and `Team` nodes, and all the edges collected
  on the `Team` to `Team` traversal
- A list of `Player` nodes
- A list of `Player - Transfer` edges

Here is a picture of how it will look if you run the query in MemgraphLab.

![football_transfers_MemgraphLab_visual](/pages/querying/exploring-datasets/football-transfers/football_transfers_MemgraphLab_visual.png)

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/querying/exploring-datasets/football-transfers.md, after:

---
title: Football transfers
description: Optimize your football transfer analysis with Memgraph's graph computing capabilities. From data exploration to analysis, discover comprehensive tutorials and how-to documentation.
---

# Football transfers

This article is a part of a series intended to show how to use Memgraph on
real-world data to retrieve some interesting and useful information.

We highly recommend checking out the other articles from this series which are
listed in our [tutorial overview section](/), where you
can also find instructions on how to start with the tutorial.

## Introduction

Football is a word that could mean one of several sports. In this article, we
are referring to the best-known type of football, association football. In North
America, South Africa, and Australia, to avoid confusion with other types of
football, it is called "soccer".

In professional football, a transfer is the action taken whenever a player under
contract moves between teams. It refers to the transferring of a player's
registration from one association football club to another. In general, the
players can only be transferred during a transfer window and according to the
rules. The transfer window is a period during the year in which a football team
can transfer players. There are two transfer windows per season: winter and
summer windows. Winter transfer windows are throughout January while the summer
windows are from July till August.

Usually some sort of compensation is paid for the player's rights, which is
known as a transfer fee. When a player moves from one team to another, their old
contract is terminated and they negotiate a new one with the team they are
moving to. In some cases, however, transfers can function similarly to player
trades, as teams can offer another player on their team as part of the fee.

As you may presume, there is a lot of money involved in the game of transfers.
According to FIFA, in 2018, from January till September, there were 15,626
international transfers with fees totaling US$ 7.5 billion dollars.

Football season is that part of the year during which football matches are held.
A typical football season is generally from August/September to May, although in
some countries, such as Northern Europe or East Asia, the season starts in the
spring and finishes in autumn due to weather conditions encountered during the
winter.

## Data model

In this article, we will present a graph model of football transfers from season
1992/1993 to season 2019/2020 in following five leagues:

- English Premier League
- French Ligue 1
- German Bundesliga
- Italian Serie A
- Spanish Primera Division

The model consists of the following nodes:

- `Team` - a football team with a property `name` (e.g. `"FC Barcelona"`).
- `Player` - a professional football player, contains properties `name` (e.g.
  `"Luka Modric"`) and `position` (e.g. `"Central Midfield"`).
- `League` - a football league where multiple teams play in, contains one
  property `name` (e.g. `"Premier League"`).
- `Transfer` - represents football transfer that connects a `Player` that is
  transferred from one `Team` to another `Team` within a `Season`. Transfer
  contains one optional property `fee` (e.g. `80.50`) that represents a transfer
  fee in millions of euros and one regular property `year` (e.g. `1995`) that
  represents how old was a player when the transfer occurred.
- `Season` - a football season with two properties `name` (e.g. `"2019/2020"`)
  and `year` (e.g. `2019`).

Nodes are connected with the following edges:

- `:TRANSFERRED_FROM` - connects team node `Team` to node `Transfer`
  representing a team where the player is being transferred from.
- `:TRANSFERRED_TO` - connects node `Transfer` to team node `Team` where player
  is being transferred to.
- `:TRANSFERRED_IN` - connects player node `Player` to node `Transfer`
  representing a player that was transferred in the connected transfer.
- `:HAPPENED_IN` - connects node `Transfer` to the node `Season` in which
  transfer has happened.
- `:PLAYS_IN` - connects node `Team` that plays in league node `League`.

![Football transfers](/pages/querying/exploring-datasets/football-transfers/football_transfers_metagraph.png)

## Exploring the dataset

You have two options for exploring this dataset. If you just want to take a look
at the dataset and try out a few queries, open [Memgraph
Playground](https://playground.memgraph.com/sandbox/football-transfers) and
continue with the tutorial there. Note that you will not be able to execute
`write` operations.

On the other hand, if you would like to add changes to the dataset, download the
[Memgraph Platform](https://memgraph.com/download#memgraph-platform). Once you
have it up and running, open Memgraph Lab web application within the browser on
[`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000) and navigate to `Datasets` in the
sidebar. From there, choose the dataset `Football player's transfers` and
continue with the tutorial.

## Example queries using Cypher

In the queries below, we are using [Cypher](/querying) to query Memgraph
via the console.

Now when we have a dataset of football transfers from season 1992/1993 to season
2019/2020 loaded in Memgraph, we are ready to gain some information out of it.

**1\.** Let's say you want to find 20 most expensive transfers. As mentioned
before, transfers fees are represented in millions of euros.

```cypher
MATCH (t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(p:Player)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL
RETURN round(t.fee) + 'M €' AS transfer_fee, p.name AS player_name
ORDER BY t.fee DESC
LIMIT 20;
```

**2\.** What about finding the most expensive transfer per season?

```cypher
MATCH (s:Season)<-[:HAPPENED_IN]-(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(:Player)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL
WITH s.name AS season_name, max(t.fee) AS max_fee
RETURN round(max_fee) + 'M €' AS max_transfer_fee, season_name
ORDER BY max_fee DESC;
```

**3\.** How about finding out which teams your favorite player has played for?
If you wish to check the teams for another player, replace "Sime Vrsaljko" with
the name of your favorite player.

```cypher
MATCH (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->(t:Transfer)-[]-(team:Team)
WHERE player.name = "Sime Vrsaljko"
WITH DISTINCT team
RETURN team.name AS team_name;
```

You might wonder why we haven't specified a direction in our Cypher traversal
with `(:Transfer)-[]-(:Team)`. As we want to find the teams that player was
transferred from (`(:Transfer)<-[]-(:Team)`) and transferred to
(`(:Transfer)-[]->(:Team)`), we want to collect both inbound and outbound
connections. In order to do so, we omit the arrow (`>`, `<`) in our Cypher
command.

**4\.** Find players that were transferred to and played for FC Barcelona and
count them by the player game position.

```cypher
MATCH (team:Team)<-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]-(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(player:Player)
WHERE team.name = "FC Barcelona"
WITH DISTINCT player
RETURN player.position AS player_position, count(player) AS position_count, collect(player.name) AS player_names
ORDER BY position_count DESC;
```

**5\.** Football has seen a lot of rivalries develop between clubs during its
rich and long history. One of the most famous ones is between fierce rivals FC
Barcelona and Real Madrid. There is a term, El Clasico, for a match between
those two teams. Let's find all the transfers between FC Barcelona and Real
Madrid.

```cypher
MATCH (m:Team)-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(t:Transfer)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]-(n:Team),
      (t)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(p:Player)
WHERE
    (m.name = "FC Barcelona" AND n.name = "Real Madrid") OR
    (m.name = "Real Madrid" AND n.name = "FC Barcelona")
RETURN m.name AS transferred_from_team, p.name AS player_name, n.name AS transfered_to_team;
```

**6\.** FC Barcelona is one of the most valuable football clubs in the world.
Players often want to play there as long as possible. But what about those
players who didn't fit in well? Where do they go?

```cypher
MATCH (m:Team)-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]->(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(p:Player),
      (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(n:Team)
WHERE m.name = "FC Barcelona"
RETURN n.name AS team_name, collect(p.name) AS player_names, count(p) AS number_of_players
ORDER BY number_of_players DESC;
```

**7\.** What are the teams that most players went to in season 2003/2004? The
results may surprise you.

```cypher
MATCH (season:Season)<-[:HAPPENED_IN]-(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(player:Player),
      (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(team:Team)
WHERE season.name = "2003/2004"
WITH DISTINCT player, team
RETURN team.name AS team_name, count(player) AS number_of_players, collect(player.name) AS player_names
ORDER BY number_of_players DESC, team_name
LIMIT 20;
```

**8\.** In great teams, there are players who seem to be irreplaceable. When
they leave, the club board is often struggling to find a proper replacement for
them. Let's find out which positions club "FC Barcelona" spent money on in
season 2015/2016.

```cypher
MATCH (:Team)-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]->(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(player:Player),
      (s:Season)<-[:HAPPENED_IN]-(t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(m:Team)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL AND
      s.name = "2015/2016" AND
      m.name = "FC Barcelona"
RETURN collect(player.name) AS player_names, player.position AS player_position, round(sum(t.fee)) + 'M €' AS money_spent_per_position
ORDER BY money_spent_per_position DESC;
```

**9\.** But what was the highest transfer amount per position FC Barcelona spent
on in seasons from 1992/1993 till 2019/2020?

```cypher
MATCH (:Team)-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]->(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(player:Player),
      (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(team:Team)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL AND
      team.name = "FC Barcelona"
RETURN max(t.fee) + 'M €' AS max_money_spent, player.position AS player_position
ORDER BY max_money_spent DESC;
```

**10\.** Now, let's find who were the most expensive players per position in
team FC Barcelona.

```cypher
MATCH (team:Team)<-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]-(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-(p:Player),
      (t)-[:HAPPENED_IN]->(s:Season)
WHERE t.fee IS NOT NULL AND
      team.name = "FC Barcelona"
WITH p.position AS player_position, max(t.fee) AS max_fee
MATCH (p:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->(t:Transfer)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(team:Team)
WHERE p.position = player_position AND
      t.fee = max_fee AND
      team.name = "FC Barcelona"
RETURN max_fee, player_position, collect(p.name) AS player_names
ORDER BY max_fee DESC;
```

If we needed to get the maximum transfer fee per position we would only need
first `MATCH` in the above query, making it way shorter. In order to match
players with maximum transfer fees per position our query is split into two
parts:

- First `MATCH` in the query finds the maximum transfer fee per position.
- Second `MATCH` in the query is finding all players transferred to "FC
  Barcelona" with the same position and transfer fee equal to the maximum one
  from the previous query.

**11\.** If you want to find all player transfers between two clubs you can do
that also.

```cypher
MATCH (t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]-
      (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->
      (:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(team:Team)
WHERE team.name = "FC Barcelona"
WITH player, collect(t) AS transfers
MATCH player_path = (a:Team)
      -[*bfs..10 (e, n | 'Team' IN labels(n) OR ('Transfer' IN labels(n) AND n IN transfers) )]->(b:Team)
WHERE a.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      b.name = "Sevilla FC"
UNWIND nodes(player_path) AS player_path_node
WITH player_path_node, player
WHERE 'Team' IN labels(player_path_node)
WITH collect(player_path_node.name) AS team_names, player
RETURN player.name AS player_name, team_names;
```

In the above query, we will find all players that transferred from "FC
Barcelona" to "Sevilla FC". It will include direct transfers (from "FC
Barcelona" to "Sevilla FC") and indirect transfers (from "FC Barcelona" to one
or multiple other clubs and lastly "Sevilla FC"). That is the reason why we
started first `MATCH` with searching for all players and transfers that were
transferred from "FC Barcelona". Next up is the player transfer traversal
through transfers and teams all the way to the "Sevilla FC".

For this part, we used the breadth-first search (BFS) algorithm with lambda
filter `(e, v | condition)`. It's a function that takes an edge symbol `e` and a
vertex symbol `v` and decides whether this edge and vertex pair should be
considered valid in breadth-first expansion by returning true or false (or
Null). In the above example, lambda is returning true if a vertex has a label
`Team` or a label `Transfer`. If a vertex is `Transfer` there is an additional
check where we need to make sure the transfer is one of the transfers of players
transferred from "FC Barcelona". It needs to be either `Team` or `Transfer`
because to get from a team that made the transfer to the team where the player
is being transferred to, we need to go through the node `Transfer` that connects
those two teams. So the traversal from "FC Barcelona" to "Sevilla FC" will go
through the following nodes: Transfer, Team, Transfer, Team, Transfer, etc.

**12\.** In the previous query, we found all transfers between two clubs. Let's
filter out direct ones now. We need to add a small change in the query to only
get indirect transfers.

```cypher
MATCH (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->(t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(barca:Team),
      (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(sevilla:Team)
WHERE barca.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      sevilla.name = "Sevilla FC"
WITH collect(player) AS players_direct_to_sevilla
MATCH (t:Transfer)<-[e:TRANSFERRED_IN]-
      (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->
      (:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(barca:Team)
WHERE barca.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      NOT player IN players_direct_to_sevilla
WITH player, collect(t) AS transfers
MATCH path_indirect = (a:Team)
      -[*bfs..10 (e, n | 'Team' IN labels(n) OR ('Transfer' IN labels(n) AND n IN transfers) )]->(b:Team)
WHERE a.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      b.name = "Sevilla FC"
UNWIND nodes(path_indirect) AS player_path_node
WITH player_path_node, player
WHERE 'Team' IN labels(player_path_node)
WITH collect(player_path_node.name) AS team_names, player
RETURN player.name AS player_name, team_names;
```

In this query, the only difference is that we need to find players who had a
direct transfer to Sevilla first. In the next `MATCH` we use that information to
check whether players that were transferred from FC Barcelona, didn't have
direct transfer to Sevilla FC.

If you are running this in [Memgraph Lab](https://memgraph.com/product/lab) you
can change the query a bit in order to get all nodes and edges required for a
visual graph representation of players transferring through teams.

```cypher
MATCH (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->
      (t:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(barca:Team)
MATCH (t)-[:TRANSFERRED_TO]->(sevilla:Team)
WHERE barca.name="FC Barcelona" AND
      sevilla.name="Sevilla FC"
WITH collect(player) AS players_direct_to_sevilla
MATCH (t:Transfer)<-[e:TRANSFERRED_IN]-
      (player:Player)-[:TRANSFERRED_IN]->
      (tr:Transfer)<-[:TRANSFERRED_FROM]-(barca:Team)
WHERE barca.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      NOT player IN players_direct_to_sevilla
WITH player, collect(t) AS transfers, collect(e) AS player_to_transfers
MATCH path_indirect = (a:Team)
      -[*bfs..10 (e, n | 'Team' IN labels(n) OR ('Transfer' IN labels(n) AND n IN transfers) )]->(b:Team)
WHERE a.name = "FC Barcelona" AND
      b.name = "Sevilla FC"
UNWIND player_to_transfers AS player_to_transfer
RETURN player, player_to_transfer, path_indirect;
```

MemgraphLab graph visual representation draws nodes and edges from query
results. If you only have nodes in the results then only nodes will be drawn on
the canvas. If you have both nodes and edges present in the results, MemgraphLab
is able to draw nodes and connections between them because it has all the
information relevant for drawing.

In order to change the query to accommodate that, we need to change the types of
results that are returned and collect any missing edge or node information
throughout the query. The first part of the query where we check whether the
player was transferred from "FC Barcelona" to "Sevilla FC" stays the same. In
order to draw all connections from players to transfers, we need to collect
edges connecting them. That is the reason why we are collecting edges `e`
through variable `player_to_transfers` because it contains information on which
player is connected to which transfer. With that in mind, our results contain
all the information for the graph visual:

- A path that contains `Transfer` and `Team` nodes, and all the edges collected
  on the `Team` to `Team` traversal
- A list of `Player` nodes
- A list of `Player - Transfer` edges

Here is a picture of how it will look if you run the query in MemgraphLab.

![football_transfers_MemgraphLab_visual](/pages/querying/exploring-datasets/football-transfers/football_transfers_MemgraphLab_visual.png)
