pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka.md, before:

# Graph stream processing with Kafka and Memgraph

In this tutorial, you will learn how to connect Memgraph to an existing Kafka
stream using Memgraph Lab, and transform data into graph database objects to
analyze it in real-time.

If you are still very new to streaming, feel free to first read some of our blog
posts about the topic to learn [what stream processing
is](https://memgraph.com/blog/introduction-to-stream-processing), [how it
differs from batch
processing](https://memgraph.com/blog/batch-processing-vs-stream-processing) and
[how streaming databases work](https://memgraph.com/blog/streaming-databases).

Now that you've covered theory, let's dive into practice!

We will focus on processing real-time movie ratings that are streamed through
MovieLens Kafka stream from the [Awesome Data
Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/#/movielens) using Memgraph Lab and the
Cypher query language.

## Prerequisites

To follow this tutorial, you will need:

- [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph) or [Memgraph Cloud](https://cloud.memgraph.com)

You can use Memgraph Cloud for a 2-week trial period, or you can install
Memgraph Platform locally. 

## Data stream

For this tutorial, we will use MovieLens Kafka stream from the [Awesome Data
Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/#/movielens). MovieLens data stream streams
movie ratings, and each JSON message represents a new movie rating:

```nocopy
"userId": "112",
"movie": {
  "movieId": "4993",
  "title": "Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, The (2001)",
  "genres": ["Adventure", "Fantasy"]
},
"rating": "5",
"timestamp": "1442535783"
```

## 1. Prepare Memgraph

Let's open Memgraph Lab, where we will write the transformation module and
connect to the stream.

If you have successfully installed Memgraph Platform, you should be able to open
Memgraph Lab in a browser at [`http://localhost:3000/`](http://localhost:3000/).

If you are using Memgraph Cloud, open the running instance, and open the
**Connect via Client** tab, then click on **Connect in Browser** to open
Memgraph Lab in a new browser tab. Enter your project password and **Connect Now**.

## 2. Create a transformation module

The prerequisite of connecting Memgraph to a stream is to have a transformation
module with procedures that can produce Cypher queries based on the received
messages. Procedures can be written in
[Python](/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api) or
[C](/data-streams/transformation-modules/c-api) languages. If you
need more information about what transformation modules are, please read our [reference
guide on transformation modules](/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api).

Memgraph Lab allows you to develop Python transformation modules in-app:

1. Navigate to **Query Modules**. Here you can see all the query modules
   available in Memgraph, such as utility modules or query modules from the MAGE
   library. Here you will also be able to check out and edit any transformation
   modules you develop while using Memgraph.

   ![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/query-modules.png)

2. Click on the **+ New Module** button, give the new module name `movielens`
   and create the module.

3. Memgraph Lab creates sample procedures you can erase, so you have a clean
   slate for writing the `movielens` transformation module.

   ![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/query-modules-empty.png)
 
### Python API 

Python API is defined in the `mgp` module you can find in the Memgraph
installation directory `/usr/lib/memgraph/python_support`. In essence, Python
API is a wrapper around the C API, and at the beginning of each new module, you
need to import the `mgp`. As the messages from the streams are coming as JSON
messages, you need to `import json` module for Memgraph to read them correctly.
Below the imported modules, you need to define the `@mgp.transformation`
decorator, which handles data coming from streams.

Python API also defines `@mgp.read_proc` and `@mgp.write_proc` decorators.
`@mgp.read_proc` decorator handles read-only procedures, the `@mgp.write_proc`
decorator handles procedures that also write to the database and they are used
in [writing custom query
modules](/custom-query-modules/python/implement-custom-query-module-in-python). 

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
```

Now you are ready to write the function that will transform JSON messages to
graph entities.  

### Transformation function

First, define the function `rating` that will receive a list of messages and return
queries that will be executed in Memgraph as any regular query in order to
create nodes and relationships, so the signature of the function looks like this:

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def rating(messages: mgp.Messages
                ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
```

Now you need to iterate through each message within the batch, decode it with
`json.loads` and save the elements of the message in the `movie_dict` variable.

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def rating(messages: mgp.Messages
                ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        movie_dict = json.loads(message.payload().decode('utf8'))
```
Now, you create the queries that will execute in Memgraph. You instruct Memgraph
to create `User`, `Movie` and `Genre` nodes, then connect the nodes with
appropriate relationships. In each query, you also define the entity properties.  

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def rating(messages: mgp.Messages
                ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        movie_dict = json.loads(message.payload().decode('utf8'))
        result_queries.append(
            mgp.Record(
                query=("MERGE (u:User {id: $userId}) "
                        "MERGE (m:Movie {id: $movieId, title: $title}) "
                        "WITH u, m "
                        "UNWIND $genres as genre "
                        "MERGE (m)-[:OF_GENRE]->(:Genre {name: genre}) "
                        "MERGE (u)-[r:RATED {rating: ToFloat($rating), timestamp: $timestamp}]->(m)"),

```

Once you set the placeholders, you can fill them out by applying the values
from the messages to the node and relationship properties, and return the
queries. 


```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def rating(messages: mgp.Messages
                ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        movie_dict = json.loads(message.payload().decode('utf8'))
        result_queries.append(
            mgp.Record(
                query=("MERGE (u:User {id: $userId}) "
                        "MERGE (m:Movie {id: $movieId, title: $title}) "
                        "WITH u, m "
                        "UNWIND $genres as genre "
                        "MERGE (m)-[:OF_GENRE]->(:Genre {name: genre}) "
                        "MERGE (u)-[r:RATED {rating: ToFloat($rating), timestamp: $timestamp}]->(m)"),
                parameters={
                    "userId": movie_dict["userId"],
                    "movieId": movie_dict["movie"]["movieId"],
                    "title": movie_dict["movie"]["title"],
                    "genres": movie_dict["movie"]["genres"],
                    "rating": movie_dict["rating"],
                    "timestamp": movie_dict["timestamp"]}))

    return result_queries
```

Congratulations, you just created your first transformation procedure! Save it
and you should be able to see transformation `rating() -> ()` among the
**Detected procedures & transformations**. 

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/transformation-module-from-qm.png)

You can now **Save and Close** the module to get an overview of the module that
lists procedures and their signature.

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/signature.png)

## 3. Create a stream

To add a stream in Memgraph Lab: 

1. Switch to **Streams** and **Add New Stream**.
2. Choose Kafka stream type, enter stream name `movielens`, server address
`get.awesomedata.stream:9093`, and topics `rating` as instructed on the [Awesome
Data Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/#/movielens)
3. Go to the **Next Step**.
4. Click on **Edit** (pencil icon) to modify the *Consumer Group* to the one
written on the [Awesome Data Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/#/movielens). As
the streams are public, consumer groups need to be unique. 

The stream configuration should look something like this:

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/creating-stream-movielens.png)

## 4. Add a transformation module

To add the `movielens` Python transformation module you developed earlier to a stream:

1. Click on **Add Transformation Module**.
2. Click on **Choose Transformation Module**.
3. Select the `movielens` transformation module
4. Check if the necessary transformation procedure `rating() -> ()` is visible under **Detected
   transformation functions** on the right.
5. Select it and **Attach to Stream**.

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/transformation-module.png)

## 5. Set Kafka configuration parameters

Due to the nature of the public MovieLens Awesome Data Stream, you need to add
additional Kafka configuration parameters:

* **sasl.username**: public <br/>
* **sasl.password**: public <br/>
* **security.protocol**: SASL_PLAINTEXT <br/>
* **sasl.mechanism**: PLAIN <br/>

In order to do so:

1. In the Kafka Configuration Parameters **+ Add parameter field**.
2. Insert the parameter name and value.
3. To add another parameter, **Add parameter filed**.
4. **Save Configuration** once you have set all parameters.

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/config-parameters.png)

## 6. Connect Memgraph to the stream and start ingesting the data

Once the stream is configured, you can **Connect to Stream**. 

Memgraph will do a series of checks, ensuring that defined topics and
transformation procedures are correctly configured. If all checks pass
successfully, you can **Start the stream**. Once you start the stream, you will
no longer be able to change configuration settings, just the transformation
module. 

The stream status changes to **Running**, and data is ingested into Memgraph.
You can see the number of nodes and relationships rising as the data keeps
coming in. 

## 7. Analyze the streaming data

Switch to **Query Execution** and run a query to visualize the data coming in: 

```
MATCH p=(n)-[r]-(m)
RETURN p LIMIT 100;
```
![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/graph.png)

Congratulations! You have connected Memgraph to a Kafka stream. We've prepared
queries that utilize the most powerful graph algorithms to gain every last bit
of insight that data can provide. [Let the querying
begin](https://memgraph.com/blog/how-to-analyze-a-streaming-dataset-of-movie-ratings-using-custom-query-modules)!

If you are new to Cypher, check [**Cypher query language
manual**](/querying). You can also try using various graph algorithms and
modules from our open-source repository [**MAGE**](/advanced-algorithms) to solve graph
analytics problems, create awesome customized visual displays of your nodes and
relationships with [**Graph Style
Script**](/data-visualization/graph-style-script).

You can also explore other data streams from the [Awesome Data
Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/) site! Feel free to play around with the
Python API some more and let us know what you are working on through our
[Discord server](https://discord.gg/memgraph).

Above all - enjoy your graph database!

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka.md, after:

---
title: Graph stream processing with Kafka and Memgraph
description: Leverage Kafka for efficient graph stream processing in Memgraph's graph computing solution. Learn how to integrate Kafka to process real-time graph data effectively.
---

# Graph stream processing with Kafka and Memgraph

In this tutorial, you will learn how to connect Memgraph to an existing Kafka
stream using Memgraph Lab, and transform data into graph database objects to
analyze it in real-time.

If you are still very new to streaming, feel free to first read some of our blog
posts about the topic to learn [what stream processing
is](https://memgraph.com/blog/introduction-to-stream-processing), [how it
differs from batch
processing](https://memgraph.com/blog/batch-processing-vs-stream-processing) and
[how streaming databases work](https://memgraph.com/blog/streaming-databases).

Now that you've covered theory, let's dive into practice!

We will focus on processing real-time movie ratings that are streamed through
MovieLens Kafka stream from the [Awesome Data
Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/#/movielens) using Memgraph Lab and the
Cypher query language.

## Prerequisites

To follow this tutorial, you will need:

- [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph) or [Memgraph Cloud](https://cloud.memgraph.com)

You can use Memgraph Cloud for a 2-week trial period, or you can install
Memgraph Platform locally. 

## Data stream

For this tutorial, we will use MovieLens Kafka stream from the [Awesome Data
Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/#/movielens). MovieLens data stream streams
movie ratings, and each JSON message represents a new movie rating:

```nocopy
"userId": "112",
"movie": {
  "movieId": "4993",
  "title": "Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, The (2001)",
  "genres": ["Adventure", "Fantasy"]
},
"rating": "5",
"timestamp": "1442535783"
```

## 1. Prepare Memgraph

Let's open Memgraph Lab, where we will write the transformation module and
connect to the stream.

If you have successfully installed Memgraph Platform, you should be able to open
Memgraph Lab in a browser at [`http://localhost:3000/`](http://localhost:3000/).

If you are using Memgraph Cloud, open the running instance, and open the
**Connect via Client** tab, then click on **Connect in Browser** to open
Memgraph Lab in a new browser tab. Enter your project password and **Connect Now**.

## 2. Create a transformation module

The prerequisite of connecting Memgraph to a stream is to have a transformation
module with procedures that can produce Cypher queries based on the received
messages. Procedures can be written in
[Python](/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api) or
[C](/data-streams/transformation-modules/c-api) languages. If you
need more information about what transformation modules are, please read our [reference
guide on transformation modules](/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api).

Memgraph Lab allows you to develop Python transformation modules in-app:

1. Navigate to **Query Modules**. Here you can see all the query modules
   available in Memgraph, such as utility modules or query modules from the MAGE
   library. Here you will also be able to check out and edit any transformation
   modules you develop while using Memgraph.

   ![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/query-modules.png)

2. Click on the **+ New Module** button, give the new module name `movielens`
   and create the module.

3. Memgraph Lab creates sample procedures you can erase, so you have a clean
   slate for writing the `movielens` transformation module.

   ![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/query-modules-empty.png)
 
### Python API 

Python API is defined in the `mgp` module you can find in the Memgraph
installation directory `/usr/lib/memgraph/python_support`. In essence, Python
API is a wrapper around the C API, and at the beginning of each new module, you
need to import the `mgp`. As the messages from the streams are coming as JSON
messages, you need to `import json` module for Memgraph to read them correctly.
Below the imported modules, you need to define the `@mgp.transformation`
decorator, which handles data coming from streams.

Python API also defines `@mgp.read_proc` and `@mgp.write_proc` decorators.
`@mgp.read_proc` decorator handles read-only procedures, the `@mgp.write_proc`
decorator handles procedures that also write to the database and they are used
in [writing custom query
modules](/custom-query-modules/python/implement-custom-query-module-in-python). 

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
```

Now you are ready to write the function that will transform JSON messages to
graph entities.  

### Transformation function

First, define the function `rating` that will receive a list of messages and return
queries that will be executed in Memgraph as any regular query in order to
create nodes and relationships, so the signature of the function looks like this:

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def rating(messages: mgp.Messages
                ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []
```

Now you need to iterate through each message within the batch, decode it with
`json.loads` and save the elements of the message in the `movie_dict` variable.

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def rating(messages: mgp.Messages
                ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        movie_dict = json.loads(message.payload().decode('utf8'))
```
Now, you create the queries that will execute in Memgraph. You instruct Memgraph
to create `User`, `Movie` and `Genre` nodes, then connect the nodes with
appropriate relationships. In each query, you also define the entity properties.  

```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def rating(messages: mgp.Messages
                ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        movie_dict = json.loads(message.payload().decode('utf8'))
        result_queries.append(
            mgp.Record(
                query=("MERGE (u:User {id: $userId}) "
                        "MERGE (m:Movie {id: $movieId, title: $title}) "
                        "WITH u, m "
                        "UNWIND $genres as genre "
                        "MERGE (m)-[:OF_GENRE]->(:Genre {name: genre}) "
                        "MERGE (u)-[r:RATED {rating: ToFloat($rating), timestamp: $timestamp}]->(m)"),

```

Once you set the placeholders, you can fill them out by applying the values
from the messages to the node and relationship properties, and return the
queries. 


```python
import mgp
import json

@mgp.transformation
def rating(messages: mgp.Messages
                ) -> mgp.Record(query=str, parameters=mgp.Nullable[mgp.Map]):
    result_queries = []

    for i in range(messages.total_messages()):
        message = messages.message_at(i)
        movie_dict = json.loads(message.payload().decode('utf8'))
        result_queries.append(
            mgp.Record(
                query=("MERGE (u:User {id: $userId}) "
                        "MERGE (m:Movie {id: $movieId, title: $title}) "
                        "WITH u, m "
                        "UNWIND $genres as genre "
                        "MERGE (m)-[:OF_GENRE]->(:Genre {name: genre}) "
                        "MERGE (u)-[r:RATED {rating: ToFloat($rating), timestamp: $timestamp}]->(m)"),
                parameters={
                    "userId": movie_dict["userId"],
                    "movieId": movie_dict["movie"]["movieId"],
                    "title": movie_dict["movie"]["title"],
                    "genres": movie_dict["movie"]["genres"],
                    "rating": movie_dict["rating"],
                    "timestamp": movie_dict["timestamp"]}))

    return result_queries
```

Congratulations, you just created your first transformation procedure! Save it
and you should be able to see transformation `rating() -> ()` among the
**Detected procedures & transformations**. 

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/transformation-module-from-qm.png)

You can now **Save and Close** the module to get an overview of the module that
lists procedures and their signature.

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/signature.png)

## 3. Create a stream

To add a stream in Memgraph Lab: 

1. Switch to **Streams** and **Add New Stream**.
2. Choose Kafka stream type, enter stream name `movielens`, server address
`get.awesomedata.stream:9093`, and topics `rating` as instructed on the [Awesome
Data Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/#/movielens)
3. Go to the **Next Step**.
4. Click on **Edit** (pencil icon) to modify the *Consumer Group* to the one
written on the [Awesome Data Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/#/movielens). As
the streams are public, consumer groups need to be unique. 

The stream configuration should look something like this:

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/creating-stream-movielens.png)

## 4. Add a transformation module

To add the `movielens` Python transformation module you developed earlier to a stream:

1. Click on **Add Transformation Module**.
2. Click on **Choose Transformation Module**.
3. Select the `movielens` transformation module
4. Check if the necessary transformation procedure `rating() -> ()` is visible under **Detected
   transformation functions** on the right.
5. Select it and **Attach to Stream**.

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/transformation-module.png)

## 5. Set Kafka configuration parameters

Due to the nature of the public MovieLens Awesome Data Stream, you need to add
additional Kafka configuration parameters:

* **sasl.username**: public <br/>
* **sasl.password**: public <br/>
* **security.protocol**: SASL_PLAINTEXT <br/>
* **sasl.mechanism**: PLAIN <br/>

In order to do so:

1. In the Kafka Configuration Parameters **+ Add parameter field**.
2. Insert the parameter name and value.
3. To add another parameter, **Add parameter filed**.
4. **Save Configuration** once you have set all parameters.

![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/config-parameters.png)

## 6. Connect Memgraph to the stream and start ingesting the data

Once the stream is configured, you can **Connect to Stream**. 

Memgraph will do a series of checks, ensuring that defined topics and
transformation procedures are correctly configured. If all checks pass
successfully, you can **Start the stream**. Once you start the stream, you will
no longer be able to change configuration settings, just the transformation
module. 

The stream status changes to **Running**, and data is ingested into Memgraph.
You can see the number of nodes and relationships rising as the data keeps
coming in. 

## 7. Analyze the streaming data

Switch to **Query Execution** and run a query to visualize the data coming in: 

```
MATCH p=(n)-[r]-(m)
RETURN p LIMIT 100;
```
![](/pages/data-streams/graph-stream-processing-with-kafka/graph.png)

Congratulations! You have connected Memgraph to a Kafka stream. We've prepared
queries that utilize the most powerful graph algorithms to gain every last bit
of insight that data can provide. [Let the querying
begin](https://memgraph.com/blog/how-to-analyze-a-streaming-dataset-of-movie-ratings-using-custom-query-modules)!

If you are new to Cypher, check [**Cypher query language
manual**](/querying). You can also try using various graph algorithms and
modules from our open-source repository [**MAGE**](/advanced-algorithms) to solve graph
analytics problems, create awesome customized visual displays of your nodes and
relationships with [**Graph Style
Script**](/data-visualization/graph-style-script).

You can also explore other data streams from the [Awesome Data
Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/) site! Feel free to play around with the
Python API some more and let us know what you are working on through our
[Discord server](https://discord.gg/memgraph).

Above all - enjoy your graph database!
