pages/data-streams/manage-streams-query.md, before:

# Manage data streams with queries

The following page instructs how to manage streams using queries. Streams can
also be [managed through the **Stream** section in the Memgraph
Lab](/data-streams/manage-streams-query). 

If you need a Kafka stream to play around with, we've provided some at [Awesome
Data Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/)! 

## How to create and load a transformation module into Memgraph?

A [transformation module](/data-streams/transformation-modules) is a set of
user-defined transformation procedures written in
[C](/data-streams/transformation-modules/c-api) or
[Python](/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api) that act on data
received from a streaming engine. Transformation procedures instruct Memgraph on
how to transform the incoming messages to consume them correctly. 

To create a transformation module, you need to:

1. [Create a Python or a shared library file
   (module).](/data-streams/transformation-modules#creating-a-transformation-module)
2. Save the file into the Memgraph's `query_modules` or `internal_modules` directory (default:
   `/usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules` and `/var/lib/memgraph/internal_modules/`).
3. Load the file into Memgraph either on startup (automatically) or by running a
   `CALL mg.load_all();` query.

If you are using Docker to run Memgraph, check [how to transfer the file into the container](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#copy-files-from-and-to-a-docker-container). 

If you are using Memgraph Lab you can [create transformation module within the
application](/data-streams/transformation-modules#creating-transformation-modules-within-memgraph-lab). 

## How to create a Kafka or Redpanda stream?

In order to create a stream with a query, first you need to [load the
transformation module into
Memgraph](/data-streams/manage-streams-query#how-to-create-and-load-a-transformation-module-into-memgraph). The
most basic query for creating a stream is:


```cypher
CREATE KAFKA STREAM streamName
TOPICS topic1[, <topic2>, ...]
TRANSFORM transModule.transProcedure
BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS bootstrapServers;
```

Additional options for creating a stream are explained in the [reference
guide](/data-streams#kafka-and-redpanda). 

## How to create a Pulsar stream?

In order to create a stream with a query, first you need to [load the
transformation module into
Memgraph](/data-streams/manage-streams-query#how-to-create-and-load-a-transformation-module-into-memgraph). The
most basic query for creating a stream is:


```cypher
CREATE PULSAR STREAM streamName
TOPICS topic1[,topic2, ...]
TRANSFORM transModule.transProcedure
SERVICE_URL serviceURL;
```

Additional options for creating a stream are explained in the [reference
guide](/data-streams#pulsar).

## How to get information about a stream?

You can get the basic stream information with:

```cypher
SHOW STREAMS;
```

## How to check the transformed incoming data?

To see the results of the transformation module use the `CHECK STREAM` clause.
It will consume the message from the last committed offset but won't commit the
offsets. There is no committed offset coming from a newly created stream, so by
default, the query will wait `30000` milliseconds (`30` seconds) for new
messages and after that, it will throw a timeout exception. You can change the
timeout by adding the `TIMEOUT` sub-clause and adding a custom time to the query. 

The following query will transform new messages that come from the stream within
60 seconds:

```cypher
CHECK STREAM myStream TIMEOUT 60000;
```

To consume more batches, increase the `BATCH_LIMIT`:

```cypher
CHECK STREAM myStream BATCH_LIMIT 3 TIMEOUT 60000;
```

## How to start, stop or delete a stream?

To start a specific stream with name `<stream name>` that will consume `<count>`
number of batches for a maximum duration of `<milliseconds>` milliseconds and
then stop:

```cypher
START STREAM <stream name> [BATCH_LIMIT <count>] [TIMEOUT <milliseconds>];
```

To start a stream that will run for an infinite number of batches without a
timeout limit:

```cypher
START STREAM streamName;
```

To stop a stream:

```cypher
STOP STREAM streamName;
```

To delete a stream:

```cypher
DROP STREAM streamName;
```

For more options, [check the reference guide](/data-streams#start-a-stream).

## How to change Kafka stream offset?

Use the following query to change Kafka stream offset:

```cypher
CALL mg.kafka_set_stream_offset(streamName, offset)
```

An offset of `-1` denotes the beginning offset available for the given
topic/partition. 

An offset of `-2` denotes the end of the stream and only the
next produced message will be consumed.

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/data-streams/manage-streams-query.md, after:

---
title: Manage data streams with queries
description: Learn how you can manage streams efficiently with queries in Memgraph as well as leverage queries for actionable insights by visiting our documentation page.
---

# Manage data streams with queries

The following page instructs how to manage streams using queries. Streams can
also be [managed through the **Stream** section in the Memgraph
Lab](/data-streams/manage-streams-query). 

If you need a Kafka stream to play around with, we've provided some at [Awesome
Data Stream](https://awesomedata.stream/)! 

## How to create and load a transformation module into Memgraph?

A [transformation module](/data-streams/transformation-modules) is a set of
user-defined transformation procedures written in
[C](/data-streams/transformation-modules/c-api) or
[Python](/data-streams/transformation-modules/python-api) that act on data
received from a streaming engine. Transformation procedures instruct Memgraph on
how to transform the incoming messages to consume them correctly. 

To create a transformation module, you need to:

1. [Create a Python or a shared library file
   (module).](/data-streams/transformation-modules#creating-a-transformation-module)
2. Save the file into the Memgraph's `query_modules` or `internal_modules` directory (default:
   `/usr/lib/memgraph/query_modules` and `/var/lib/memgraph/internal_modules/`).
3. Load the file into Memgraph either on startup (automatically) or by running a
   `CALL mg.load_all();` query.

If you are using Docker to run Memgraph, check [how to transfer the file into the container](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#copy-files-from-and-to-a-docker-container). 

If you are using Memgraph Lab you can [create transformation module within the
application](/data-streams/transformation-modules#creating-transformation-modules-within-memgraph-lab). 

## How to create a Kafka or Redpanda stream?

In order to create a stream with a query, first you need to [load the
transformation module into
Memgraph](/data-streams/manage-streams-query#how-to-create-and-load-a-transformation-module-into-memgraph). The
most basic query for creating a stream is:


```cypher
CREATE KAFKA STREAM streamName
TOPICS topic1[, <topic2>, ...]
TRANSFORM transModule.transProcedure
BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS bootstrapServers;
```

Additional options for creating a stream are explained in the [reference
guide](/data-streams#kafka-and-redpanda). 

## How to create a Pulsar stream?

In order to create a stream with a query, first you need to [load the
transformation module into
Memgraph](/data-streams/manage-streams-query#how-to-create-and-load-a-transformation-module-into-memgraph). The
most basic query for creating a stream is:


```cypher
CREATE PULSAR STREAM streamName
TOPICS topic1[,topic2, ...]
TRANSFORM transModule.transProcedure
SERVICE_URL serviceURL;
```

Additional options for creating a stream are explained in the [reference
guide](/data-streams#pulsar).

## How to get information about a stream?

You can get the basic stream information with:

```cypher
SHOW STREAMS;
```

## How to check the transformed incoming data?

To see the results of the transformation module use the `CHECK STREAM` clause.
It will consume the message from the last committed offset but won't commit the
offsets. There is no committed offset coming from a newly created stream, so by
default, the query will wait `30000` milliseconds (`30` seconds) for new
messages and after that, it will throw a timeout exception. You can change the
timeout by adding the `TIMEOUT` sub-clause and adding a custom time to the query. 

The following query will transform new messages that come from the stream within
60 seconds:

```cypher
CHECK STREAM myStream TIMEOUT 60000;
```

To consume more batches, increase the `BATCH_LIMIT`:

```cypher
CHECK STREAM myStream BATCH_LIMIT 3 TIMEOUT 60000;
```

## How to start, stop or delete a stream?

To start a specific stream with name `<stream name>` that will consume `<count>`
number of batches for a maximum duration of `<milliseconds>` milliseconds and
then stop:

```cypher
START STREAM <stream name> [BATCH_LIMIT <count>] [TIMEOUT <milliseconds>];
```

To start a stream that will run for an infinite number of batches without a
timeout limit:

```cypher
START STREAM streamName;
```

To stop a stream:

```cypher
STOP STREAM streamName;
```

To delete a stream:

```cypher
DROP STREAM streamName;
```

For more options, [check the reference guide](/data-streams#start-a-stream).

## How to change Kafka stream offset?

Use the following query to change Kafka stream offset:

```cypher
CALL mg.kafka_set_stream_offset(streamName, offset)
```

An offset of `-1` denotes the beginning offset available for the given
topic/partition. 

An offset of `-2` denotes the end of the stream and only the
next produced message will be consumed.
