pages/deployment/workloads/memgraph-in-high-throughput-workloads.mdx, before:

---
title: Memgraph in high-throughput workloads
description: Suggestions on how to bring your Memgraph to production in high-throughput workloads. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { CommunityLinks } from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'

# Memgraph in high-throughput workloads

<Callout type="info">
Before diving into this guide, we recommend starting with the [Deployment best practices](/deployment/best-practices) 
page. It provides **foundational, use-case-agnostic advice** for deploying Memgraph in production.

This guide builds on that foundation, offering **additional recommendations tailored to specific workloads**. 
In cases where guidance overlaps, consider the information here as **complementary or overriding**, depending 
on the unique needs of your use case.
</Callout>

## Is this guide for you?

This guide is for you if you're working with **high-throughput graph workloads** where performance, consistency,
and scale are critical.
You’ll benefit from this content if:

- You’re handling **more than a thousand writes per second**, and your graph data is constantly changing at high velocity.  
- You want your **read performance to remain consistent**, even as new data is continuously ingested.  
- You’re dealing with **high volumes of concurrent reads and writes**, and need a database that can handle both without performance degradation.  
- Your data is flowing in from **real-time streaming systems** like **Kafka**, and you need a database that can keep up.  

If this sounds like your use case, this guide will walk you through how to configure and scale Memgraph for **reliable, high-throughput performance** in production.

## Why choose Memgraph for high-throughput use cases?

When your workload involves thousands of writes per second and concurrent access to ever-changing graph data, 
Memgraph provides the performance and architecture needed to keep up—without compromise. 

Here's why Memgraph is a great fit for high-throughput use cases:

- **In-memory storage engine**: Memgraph operates entirely in-memory, eliminating the need to write to disk on every transaction.
  This allows it to **scale write throughput far beyond traditional disk-based databases**. Unlike systems that rely on LRU
  or OS-level caching, where **cache invalidation can degrade read performance during heavy writes**, Memgraph offers
  **predictable read latency** even under constant data changes.  
  
  While many graph databases **max out around 1,000 writes per second**, Memgraph can handle **up to 50x more** 
  (see image below), making it ideal for **high-velocity, write-intensive workloads**.

  ![](/pages/memgraph-in-production/benchmarking-memgraph/realistic-workload.png)

- **Non-blocking reads and writes with MVCC**: Built on multi-version concurrency control (MVCC), 
  Memgraph ensures that **writes don’t block reads** and **reads don’t block writes**, allowing each to scale independently.

- **Fine-grained locking** : Locking happens at the node and relationship level, enabling **highly concurrent writes** 
  and minimizing contention across threads.

- **Lock-free skiplist storage**: Memgraph uses **lock-free, concurrent skip list structures** for storing nodes,
  relationships, and indices, leading to faster data access and minimal coordination overhead between threads.

- **Snapshot isolation by default**: Unlike many databases that rely on **read-committed** isolation 
  (which can return inconsistent data), Memgraph provides **snapshot isolation**, ensuring data accuracy and 
  consistency in real-time queries.

- **Inter-query parallelization**: Each read and write query is handled on its own CPU core, meaning Memgraph can 
  **scale horizontally on a single machine** based on your hardware.

- **Horizontal read scaling with high availability**: Memgraph supports [replication](/clustering/replication) and
  [high availability](/clustering/high-availability), allowing you to distribute **read traffic across multiple replicas**.
  These replicas can also power **secondary workloads** like GraphRAG, analytics, or ML pipelines, **without affecting
  the performance of the main write-intensive instance**.

## What is covered?

The suggestions for high-throughput workloads **complement** several key sections in the 
[general suggestions guide](/memgraph-in-production/general-suggestions). These sections offer important context and
additional best practices tailored for performance, stability, and scalability in high-throughput systems:

- [Choosing the right Memgraph flag set](#choosing-the-right-memgraph-flag-set) <br />
  Memgraph offers specific flags to optimize streaming graph updates.

- [Choosing the right Memgraph storage mode](#choosing-the-right-memgraph-storage-mode) <br />
  Guidance on selecting the optimal **storage mode** for high-throughput use cases, depending on whether your focus is
  analytical speed or transactional safety.
  
- [Importing mechanisms](#importing-mechanisms) <br />
  With multithreaded writes, learn how to avoid write-write conflicts. Connect your streaming sources to Memgraph.

- [Enterprise features you might require](#enterprise-features-you-might-require)  <br />
  Understand which **enterprise features** — such as high availability, and dynamic graph algorithms will keep your real-time use case smooth.

- [Queries that best suit your workload](#queries-that-best-suit-your-workload)
  Learn how to optimize update queries coming at the database.

## Choosing the right Memgraph flag set

When streaming data from systems like Kafka, the incoming payload is often **standardized**, 
meaning that even when a node or relationship is updated, **some property values might remain unchanged**.

By default, Memgraph sets the flag `--storage-delta-on-identical-property-update=true`, which **updates all properties**
of a node or relationship during an update, even if the new value is identical to the existing one.
This can introduce unnecessary write overhead.

To optimize for **higher throughput** in scenarios where most incoming updates do not change all property values,
it’s recommended to set:

```bash
--storage-delta-on-identical-property-update=false
```

With this setting, Memgraph will **only create delta records for properties that have actually changed**,
reducing internal write operations and improving overall system throughput—especially important in high-velocity
streaming use cases.

## Choosing the right Memgraph storage mode

High-throughput scenarios in Memgraph can run effectively on both `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` and `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`
storage modes, depending on your specific workload requirements.

If your workload meets the following conditions:

- You are **updating properties** on existing nodes and relationships,  
- You are **appending** new nodes and relationships to the graph,  
- You are **not performing deletes**,

then it may be worth considering switching to `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode.  
This mode allows **writes to be multithreaded**, unlocking **near limitless write speeds** by parallelizing ingestion
across CPU cores.

However, keep in mind:

- If you require **replication**, **high availability**, or **ACID guarantees**, you must use `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode.  
- `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` is optimized for **bulk ingestion** and **read-only analytics**, but it 
  **does not support transactional rollback**, as it doesn’t create delta objects during writes.  
  Additionally, **WALs (write-ahead logs) are not generated** in this mode, meaning recovery relies solely on **snapshot creation**.

Learn more about [storage modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#storage-modes) in our documentation.

## Importing mechanisms

Memgraph natively supports **Apache Kafka** and **Apache Pulsar** consumers to directly ingest 
[data streams](/data-streams). However, depending on the system architecture and flexibility
requirements, some users prefer building **custom Kafka consumers** that programmatically push data into Memgraph.

### Handling write-write conflicts
If you are ingesting data from **multiple topics** or multiple producers, it's important to 
**handle potential write-write conflicts**—especially when running in `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode.  
You can learn more about these scenarios in our
[conflicting transactions documentation](/help-center/errors/transactions#conflicting-transactions).

To safely manage these conflicts:

- Use a driver that supports **managed transactions** with automatic retries. For example, **Neo4j drivers**
  offer an `execute_write()` method that **automatically retries transient errors** (errors that can be safely retried without client-side intervention).
- Wrap your **write operations inside retryable transactions** if there are **multiple concurrent writers**.
- If you **only have a single writer**, you generally don’t need to worry about transient errors or retries.

### Idempotency concept
In addition, when working with streams, **unexpected errors may require replaying the stream**.
To ensure **data consistency even after multiple replays**, it's crucial to make your ingestion logic **idempotent**.  
We strongly recommend using **`MERGE` clauses** instead of `CREATE` when inserting data into Memgraph.
`MERGE` ensures that nodes and relationships are **created only if they don't already exist**, preventing
duplicates and keeping your graph clean no matter how many times the same event is replayed.

## Enterprise features you might require

For production-grade high-throughput deployments, you may need advanced capabilities to ensure
**availability**, **data management**, and **tenant isolation**. Memgraph offers several enterprise features
designed to support these needs:

- **Replication, high availability, and automatic failover**  
  If you require your system to be **available at all times**, Memgraph supports
  [clustering and high availability](/clustering/high-availability), allowing you to minimize downtime and recover
  automatically from failures.

- **Node and relationship TTL (time-to-live)**  
  In high-ingestion environments, you may need to automatically **clean up stale data** after a certain retention period.
  Memgraph supports [time-to-live (TTL)](/querying/time-to-live) mechanisms for both **nodes** and **relationships**,
  ensuring your graph remains manageable and efficient over time.

- **Multi-tenancy**  
  Some workloads require a **separate graph database per customer** to ensure strict data isolation and security.
  Memgraph supports [multi-tenancy](/database-management/multi-tenancy), enabling you to manage multiple independent
  graphs within a single Memgraph instance.

## Queries that best suit your workload

When ingesting data from streams, it's best to keep your Cypher queries **simple, idempotent, and efficient**. A typical ingestion query should look like:

```cypher
MERGE (n:Label) SET n += $row;
```

This approach ensures **idempotency** (safe reprocessing of the same events) and **minimizes query execution time** by keeping the transaction lightweight.  
Keep in mind that adding **complex business logic** or **customization** to the ingestion queries will **increase query latency**, so it's always a good practice to **profile your queries** using Memgraph’s [`PROFILE` tool](/querying/clauses/profile) to understand and optimize performance.

---

### Dynamic labels and edge types

Memgraph also supports:

- [Dynamic node label creation](/querying/clauses/create#14-creating-node-labels-dynamically)  
- [Dynamic relationship type creation](/querying/clauses/create#23-creating-relationship-types-dynamically)

However, **dynamic creation is only supported with `CREATE` operations**, and **matching or merging dynamically created
labels and types is not supported**.

If your payload contains **dynamic labels or edge types** and you still need **idempotency**, you have two options:

- **Programmatically construct your Cypher query strings** based on the payload to ensure correct label/type usage before sending the query to Memgraph.
- **Optionally use the [`merge`](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/merge) procedure from MAGE**

<Callout type="warning">
While MAGE procedures are **written in C++ and highly optimized**, they still introduce **slightly more overhead**
compared to **pure Cypher**, as they are executed as external modules. We recommend favoring pure Cypher when
possible for the **highest performance**.
</Callout>

### Using `convert.str2object` for parsing nested properties

When working with streamed data, sometimes your incoming payload contains **serialized JSON strings** that need to be
transformed into property maps inside your graph.
Memgraph provides the [`convert.str2object` function](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/convert#str2object) to easily handle this scenario.

Example usage:

```cypher
WITH convert.str2object('{"name":"Alice", "age":30}') AS props
MERGE (n:Person)
SET n += props;
```

This function **parses a JSON-formatted string into a Cypher map**, making it very useful for flexible ingestion pipelines
where the payload structure might vary slightly or be semi-structured.

<CommunityLinks/>

Commit message:

vm.max_map_count info

pages/deployment/workloads/memgraph-in-high-throughput-workloads.mdx, after:

---
title: Memgraph in high-throughput workloads
description: Suggestions on how to bring your Memgraph to production in high-throughput workloads. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { CommunityLinks } from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'

# Memgraph in high-throughput workloads

<Callout type="info">
Before diving into this guide, we recommend starting with the [Deployment best practices](/deployment/best-practices) 
page. It provides **foundational, use-case-agnostic advice** for deploying Memgraph in production.

This guide builds on that foundation, offering **additional recommendations tailored to specific workloads**. 
In cases where guidance overlaps, consider the information here as **complementary or overriding**, depending 
on the unique needs of your use case.
</Callout>

## Is this guide for you?

This guide is for you if you're working with **high-throughput graph workloads** where performance, consistency,
and scale are critical.
You’ll benefit from this content if:

- You’re handling **more than a thousand writes per second**, and your graph data is constantly changing at high velocity.  
- You want your **read performance to remain consistent**, even as new data is continuously ingested.  
- You’re dealing with **high volumes of concurrent reads and writes**, and need a database that can handle both without performance degradation.  
- Your data is flowing in from **real-time streaming systems** like **Kafka**, and you need a database that can keep up.  

If this sounds like your use case, this guide will walk you through how to configure and scale Memgraph for **reliable, high-throughput performance** in production.

## Why choose Memgraph for high-throughput use cases?

When your workload involves thousands of writes per second and concurrent access to ever-changing graph data, 
Memgraph provides the performance and architecture needed to keep up—without compromise. 

Here's why Memgraph is a great fit for high-throughput use cases:

- **In-memory storage engine**: Memgraph operates entirely in-memory, eliminating the need to write to disk on every transaction.
  This allows it to **scale write throughput far beyond traditional disk-based databases**. Unlike systems that rely on LRU
  or OS-level caching, where **cache invalidation can degrade read performance during heavy writes**, Memgraph offers
  **predictable read latency** even under constant data changes.  
  
  While many graph databases **max out around 1,000 writes per second**, Memgraph can handle **up to 50x more** 
  (see image below), making it ideal for **high-velocity, write-intensive workloads**.

  ![](/pages/memgraph-in-production/benchmarking-memgraph/realistic-workload.png)

- **Non-blocking reads and writes with MVCC**: Built on multi-version concurrency control (MVCC), 
  Memgraph ensures that **writes don’t block reads** and **reads don’t block writes**, allowing each to scale independently.

- **Fine-grained locking** : Locking happens at the node and relationship level, enabling **highly concurrent writes** 
  and minimizing contention across threads.

- **Lock-free skiplist storage**: Memgraph uses **lock-free, concurrent skip list structures** for storing nodes,
  relationships, and indices, leading to faster data access and minimal coordination overhead between threads.

- **Snapshot isolation by default**: Unlike many databases that rely on **read-committed** isolation 
  (which can return inconsistent data), Memgraph provides **snapshot isolation**, ensuring data accuracy and 
  consistency in real-time queries.

- **Inter-query parallelization**: Each read and write query is handled on its own CPU core, meaning Memgraph can 
  **scale horizontally on a single machine** based on your hardware.

- **Horizontal read scaling with high availability**: Memgraph supports [replication](/clustering/replication) and
  [high availability](/clustering/high-availability), allowing you to distribute **read traffic across multiple replicas**.
  These replicas can also power **secondary workloads** like GraphRAG, analytics, or ML pipelines, **without affecting
  the performance of the main write-intensive instance**.

## What is covered?

The suggestions for high-throughput workloads **complement** several key sections in the 
[general suggestions guide](/memgraph-in-production/general-suggestions). These sections offer important context and
additional best practices tailored for performance, stability, and scalability in high-throughput systems:

- [Hardware configuration](#hardware-configuration) <br />
  Critical system settings for high-throughput workloads, including `vm.max_map_count` configuration.

- [Choosing the right Memgraph flag set](#choosing-the-right-memgraph-flag-set) <br />
  Memgraph offers specific flags to optimize streaming graph updates.

- [Choosing the right Memgraph storage mode](#choosing-the-right-memgraph-storage-mode) <br />
  Guidance on selecting the optimal **storage mode** for high-throughput use cases, depending on whether your focus is
  analytical speed or transactional safety.
  
- [Importing mechanisms](#importing-mechanisms) <br />
  With multithreaded writes, learn how to avoid write-write conflicts. Connect your streaming sources to Memgraph.

- [Enterprise features you might require](#enterprise-features-you-might-require)  <br />
  Understand which **enterprise features** — such as high availability, and dynamic graph algorithms will keep your real-time use case smooth.

- [Queries that best suit your workload](#queries-that-best-suit-your-workload)
  Learn how to optimize update queries coming at the database.

## Hardware configuration

High-throughput workloads place significant demands on system resources, making proper hardware configuration essential for stable and performant operations.

### Memory map configuration

One of the most critical system settings for high-throughput workloads is configuring the kernel parameter `vm.max_map_count`.
This setting ensures that the system can allocate enough virtual memory areas, which is essential for avoiding memory-related issues.

<Callout type="warning">
The standard recommended values for `vm.max_map_count` may be insufficient for high-throughput operations.
If you encounter `munmap` errors or crashes due to `bad_alloc` errors, you should try increasing the `vm.max_map_count` value beyond the recommended amount.
</Callout>

You can find detailed setup instructions and recommended values in our 
[system configuration documentation](/database-management/system-configuration#recommended-values-for-the-vmmax_map_count-parameter).

If you're deploying Memgraph on Kubernetes, our Helm charts include an **init container** that automatically sets `vm.max_map_count`
during startup. However, this container requires **root privileges** to execute. If you're running in a restricted environment
or prefer not to use privileged containers, you'll need to **manually configure** this parameter on the host machine.

Properly configuring `vm.max_map_count` is a one-time setup but essential for a stable and performant high-throughput Memgraph deployment.

## Choosing the right Memgraph flag set

When streaming data from systems like Kafka, the incoming payload is often **standardized**, 
meaning that even when a node or relationship is updated, **some property values might remain unchanged**.

By default, Memgraph sets the flag `--storage-delta-on-identical-property-update=true`, which **updates all properties**
of a node or relationship during an update, even if the new value is identical to the existing one.
This can introduce unnecessary write overhead.

To optimize for **higher throughput** in scenarios where most incoming updates do not change all property values,
it’s recommended to set:

```bash
--storage-delta-on-identical-property-update=false
```

With this setting, Memgraph will **only create delta records for properties that have actually changed**,
reducing internal write operations and improving overall system throughput—especially important in high-velocity
streaming use cases.

## Choosing the right Memgraph storage mode

High-throughput scenarios in Memgraph can run effectively on both `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` and `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`
storage modes, depending on your specific workload requirements.

If your workload meets the following conditions:

- You are **updating properties** on existing nodes and relationships,  
- You are **appending** new nodes and relationships to the graph,  
- You are **not performing deletes**,

then it may be worth considering switching to `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode.  
This mode allows **writes to be multithreaded**, unlocking **near limitless write speeds** by parallelizing ingestion
across CPU cores.

However, keep in mind:

- If you require **replication**, **high availability**, or **ACID guarantees**, you must use `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode.  
- `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` is optimized for **bulk ingestion** and **read-only analytics**, but it 
  **does not support transactional rollback**, as it doesn’t create delta objects during writes.  
  Additionally, **WALs (write-ahead logs) are not generated** in this mode, meaning recovery relies solely on **snapshot creation**.

Learn more about [storage modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#storage-modes) in our documentation.

## Importing mechanisms

Memgraph natively supports **Apache Kafka** and **Apache Pulsar** consumers to directly ingest 
[data streams](/data-streams). However, depending on the system architecture and flexibility
requirements, some users prefer building **custom Kafka consumers** that programmatically push data into Memgraph.

### Handling write-write conflicts
If you are ingesting data from **multiple topics** or multiple producers, it's important to 
**handle potential write-write conflicts**—especially when running in `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode.  
You can learn more about these scenarios in our
[conflicting transactions documentation](/help-center/errors/transactions#conflicting-transactions).

To safely manage these conflicts:

- Use a driver that supports **managed transactions** with automatic retries. For example, **Neo4j drivers**
  offer an `execute_write()` method that **automatically retries transient errors** (errors that can be safely retried without client-side intervention).
- Wrap your **write operations inside retryable transactions** if there are **multiple concurrent writers**.
- If you **only have a single writer**, you generally don’t need to worry about transient errors or retries.

### Idempotency concept
In addition, when working with streams, **unexpected errors may require replaying the stream**.
To ensure **data consistency even after multiple replays**, it's crucial to make your ingestion logic **idempotent**.  
We strongly recommend using **`MERGE` clauses** instead of `CREATE` when inserting data into Memgraph.
`MERGE` ensures that nodes and relationships are **created only if they don't already exist**, preventing
duplicates and keeping your graph clean no matter how many times the same event is replayed.

## Enterprise features you might require

For production-grade high-throughput deployments, you may need advanced capabilities to ensure
**availability**, **data management**, and **tenant isolation**. Memgraph offers several enterprise features
designed to support these needs:

- **Replication, high availability, and automatic failover**  
  If you require your system to be **available at all times**, Memgraph supports
  [clustering and high availability](/clustering/high-availability), allowing you to minimize downtime and recover
  automatically from failures.

- **Node and relationship TTL (time-to-live)**  
  In high-ingestion environments, you may need to automatically **clean up stale data** after a certain retention period.
  Memgraph supports [time-to-live (TTL)](/querying/time-to-live) mechanisms for both **nodes** and **relationships**,
  ensuring your graph remains manageable and efficient over time.

- **Multi-tenancy**  
  Some workloads require a **separate graph database per customer** to ensure strict data isolation and security.
  Memgraph supports [multi-tenancy](/database-management/multi-tenancy), enabling you to manage multiple independent
  graphs within a single Memgraph instance.

## Queries that best suit your workload

When ingesting data from streams, it's best to keep your Cypher queries **simple, idempotent, and efficient**. A typical ingestion query should look like:

```cypher
MERGE (n:Label) SET n += $row;
```

This approach ensures **idempotency** (safe reprocessing of the same events) and **minimizes query execution time** by keeping the transaction lightweight.  
Keep in mind that adding **complex business logic** or **customization** to the ingestion queries will **increase query latency**, so it's always a good practice to **profile your queries** using Memgraph’s [`PROFILE` tool](/querying/clauses/profile) to understand and optimize performance.

---

### Dynamic labels and edge types

Memgraph also supports:

- [Dynamic node label creation](/querying/clauses/create#14-creating-node-labels-dynamically)  
- [Dynamic relationship type creation](/querying/clauses/create#23-creating-relationship-types-dynamically)

However, **dynamic creation is only supported with `CREATE` operations**, and **matching or merging dynamically created
labels and types is not supported**.

If your payload contains **dynamic labels or edge types** and you still need **idempotency**, you have two options:

- **Programmatically construct your Cypher query strings** based on the payload to ensure correct label/type usage before sending the query to Memgraph.
- **Optionally use the [`merge`](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/merge) procedure from MAGE**

<Callout type="warning">
While MAGE procedures are **written in C++ and highly optimized**, they still introduce **slightly more overhead**
compared to **pure Cypher**, as they are executed as external modules. We recommend favoring pure Cypher when
possible for the **highest performance**.
</Callout>

### Using `convert.str2object` for parsing nested properties

When working with streamed data, sometimes your incoming payload contains **serialized JSON strings** that need to be
transformed into property maps inside your graph.
Memgraph provides the [`convert.str2object` function](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/convert#str2object) to easily handle this scenario.

Example usage:

```cypher
WITH convert.str2object('{"name":"Alice", "age":30}') AS props
MERGE (n:Person)
SET n += props;
```

This function **parses a JSON-formatted string into a Cypher map**, making it very useful for flexible ingestion pipelines
where the payload structure might vary slightly or be semi-structured.

<CommunityLinks/>
