pages/client-libraries/graphql.mdx, before:

---
title: GraphQL quick start
description: Learn to work with Memgraph using GraphQL. Our documentation takes you through each step in detail to deliver exceptional graph solutions.
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# GraphQL quick start

At the end of this guide, you will have created a simple GraphQL
application that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple
queries against it.

## Quickstart

We'll be using a simple Node.js application using the Neo4j GraphQL Library to connect
to a running Memgraph instance and execute GraphQL queries against the database.

Necessary prerequisites that should be installed in your local environment are:

- [The Neo4j GraphQL Library](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql/current/).
- The [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) package manager.
- The [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) runtime environment.
- A utility that can be used to host the GraphQL schema, e.g. [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/).

<Steps>

### Run Memgraph

The easiest way to start Memgraph is by running Memgraph Platform Docker image 
with the following command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

The command above will start [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#install-memgraph-platform), 
which includes [Memgraph database](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#other-available-docker-images), 
[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization#quick-start) and [Memgraph MAGE](/advanced-algorithms#quick-start). 
Memgraph uses Bolt protocol to communicate with the client using the exposed 
7687 port. Memgraph Lab is a web application you can use to visualize the data. 
It's accessible at http://localhost:3000 if Memgraph Platform is running 
correctly. The 7444 port enables Memgraph Lab to access and preview the logs, 
which is why both of these ports need to be exposed. 

For more information visit the getting started guide on 
[how to run Memgraph with Docker](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker).


### Create a work directory

Next, create a directory for your project and positioning yourself in it:

```
mkdir graphql-example
cd graphql-example
```

### Initialize the Node.js project

Initialize the project using the following code:

```
npm init es6 --yes
```

### Setup the Neo4j GraphQL Library 

Install the library and its dependencies by running the following command:

```
npm install @neo4j/graphql graphql neo4j-driver @apollo/server
```

### Create the application file 

The application file will be used to setup the Neo4j GraphQL Library and connect to the running Memgraph instance.

Create the file and add the content below.

```
touch index.js
```

```js
const { Neo4jGraphQL } = require("@neo4j/graphql");
const { ApolloServer, gql } = require("apollo-server");
const neo4j = require("neo4j-driver");

const typeDefs = gql`
type Post {
    id: ID! @id
    content: String!
    creator: User! @relationship(type: "HAS_POST", direction: IN)
}

type User {
    id: ID! @id
    name: String
    posts: [Post!]! @relationship(type: "HAS_POST", direction: OUT)
}
`;

const driver = neo4j.driver(
    "bolt://localhost:7687",
    neo4j.auth.basic("", "")
);

const neoSchema = new Neo4jGraphQL({
    typeDefs, driver,
    config: {
        driverConfig: {
            database: "memgraph",
        },
    }
});

neoSchema.getSchema().then((schema) => {
  const server = new ApolloServer({
      schema,
  });

  server.listen().then(({ url }) => {
      console.log(`🚀 Server ready at ${url}`);
  });
})
```

### Run the application

Run the application using the following code:

```
node index.js
```

### Interact with Memgraph 

You are now ready to interact with Memgraph using GraphQL queries through **localhost(127.0.0.1):4000**.

</Steps>

## Current limitations

Memgraph currently supports CRUD operations using GraphQL. That means that the entities inside
the database can be updated and basic traversals can be done, but more complicated operations
are currently not supported through GraphQL.

GraphQL APIs need to be aware of the shape of data they are working with which is abstracted
into the concept of GraphQL schemas. Currently this has to be specified in the Node.js
application file explicitly. In terms of a property graph, this means the labels and properties
of nodes and relationships. The Neo4j GraphQL Library has support for automatic graph
introspection, Memgraph currently does not support this feature.

Commit message:

Add desrctiption for the example

pages/client-libraries/graphql.mdx, after:

---
title: GraphQL quick start
description: Learn to work with Memgraph using GraphQL. Our documentation takes you through each step in detail to deliver exceptional graph solutions.
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# GraphQL quick start

At the end of this guide, you will have created a simple GraphQL
application that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple
queries against it.

## Quickstart

We'll be using a simple Node.js application using the Neo4j GraphQL Library to connect
to a running Memgraph instance and execute GraphQL queries against the database.

Necessary prerequisites that should be installed in your local environment are:

- [The Neo4j GraphQL Library](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql/current/).
- The [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) package manager.
- The [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) runtime environment.
- A utility that can be used to host the GraphQL schema, e.g. [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/).

<Steps>

### Run Memgraph

The easiest way to start Memgraph is by running Memgraph Platform Docker image
with the following command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

The command above will start [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#install-memgraph-platform),
which includes [Memgraph database](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#other-available-docker-images),
[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization#quick-start) and [Memgraph MAGE](/advanced-algorithms#quick-start).
Memgraph uses Bolt protocol to communicate with the client using the exposed
7687 port. Memgraph Lab is a web application you can use to visualize the data.
It's accessible at http://localhost:3000 if Memgraph Platform is running
correctly. The 7444 port enables Memgraph Lab to access and preview the logs,
which is why both of these ports need to be exposed.

For more information visit the getting started guide on
[how to run Memgraph with Docker](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker).


### Create a work directory

Next, create a directory for your project and positioning yourself in it:

```
mkdir graphql-example
cd graphql-example
```

### Initialize the Node.js project

Initialize the project using the following code:

```
npm init es6 --yes
```

### Setup the Neo4j GraphQL Library

Install the library and its dependencies by running the following command:

```
npm install @neo4j/graphql graphql neo4j-driver @apollo/server
```

### Create the application file

The application file will be used to setup the Neo4j GraphQL Library and connect to the running Memgraph instance.

Create the file and add the content below.

```
touch index.js
```

```js
const { Neo4jGraphQL } = require("@neo4j/graphql");
const { ApolloServer, gql } = require("apollo-server");
const neo4j = require("neo4j-driver");

const typeDefs = gql`
type Post {
    id: ID! @id
    content: String!
    creator: User! @relationship(type: "HAS_POST", direction: IN)
}

type User {
    id: ID! @id
    name: String
    posts: [Post!]! @relationship(type: "HAS_POST", direction: OUT)
}
`;

const driver = neo4j.driver(
    "bolt://localhost:7687",
    neo4j.auth.basic("", "")
);

const neoSchema = new Neo4jGraphQL({
    typeDefs, driver,
    config: {
        driverConfig: {
            database: "memgraph",
        },
    }
});

neoSchema.getSchema().then((schema) => {
  const server = new ApolloServer({
      schema,
  });

  server.listen().then(({ url }) => {
      console.log(`🚀 Server ready at ${url}`);
  });
})
```

In this example, it's evident that the data schema must be explicitly defined. The GraphQL server can
exclusively process queries that operate on data conforming to the specified schemas. In this example
the schema defines a graph, where the node types *User* and *Post* may be connected by a relationship
with a type of *HAS_POST*. As it can be seen in this example, to set up a GraphQL client against a running
Memgraph instance, you have to specify the GraphQL schema, set up the used drivers and specify Memgraph,
as the used database. The last step is important because the default database name in *driverConfig* is not
compatible with Memgraph.

### Run the application

Run the application using the following code:

```
node index.js
```

### Interact with Memgraph

You are now ready to interact with Memgraph using GraphQL queries through **localhost(127.0.0.1):4000**.

</Steps>

## Current limitations

Memgraph currently supports CRUD operations using GraphQL. That means that the entities inside
the database can be updated and basic traversals can be done, but more complicated operations
are currently not supported through GraphQL.

GraphQL APIs need to be aware of the shape of data they are working with which is abstracted
into the concept of GraphQL schemas. Currently this has to be specified in the Node.js
application file explicitly. In terms of a property graph, this means the labels and properties
of nodes and relationships. The Neo4j GraphQL Library has support for automatic graph
introspection, Memgraph currently does not support this feature.
