pages/client-libraries/nodejs.md, before:

# Node.js quick start

At the end of this guide, you will have created a simple Node.js **`Hello, World!`** program that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple
queries.

## Prerequisites

To follow this guide, you will need:

- A **running Memgraph instance**. If you need to set up Memgraph, take a look
  at the [Installation guide](/getting-started/install-memgraph).
- A basic understanding of graph databases and the property graph model.
- The newest version of **Node.js** installed. Instructions on how to setup
  Node. JS can be found on the [official
  website](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

## Basic Setup

We'll be using **Express.js** to demonstrate how to connect to a running
Memgraph instance. Express.js is a web application framework that enables us to
create complete Node.js applications. If you don't won't to use it, the steps
might be slightly different, but the code is either the same or very
similar.

Let's jump in and connect a simple program to Memgraph.

**1.** Create a new directory for your application, for example `/MyApp` and
position yourself in it.<br /> **2.** Create a `package.json` file with the
command:

```
npm init
```

**3.** Install **Express.js** and the **Bolt driver** in the `/MyApp` directory
while adding them to the dependencies list.

```
npm install express --save
npm install neo4j-driver --save
```

**4.** To make the actual program, create a `program.js` file and add the
following code:

```javascript
const express = require("express");
const app = express();
const port = 3000;
var neo4j = require("neo4j-driver");

app.get("/", async (req, res) => {
  const driver = neo4j.driver("bolt://localhost:7687");
  const session = driver.session();

  try {
    const result = await session.writeTransaction((tx) =>
      tx.run(
        'CREATE (a:Greeting) SET a.message = $message RETURN "Node " + id(a) + ": " + a.message',
        {
          message: "Hello, World!",
        }
      )
    );

    const singleRecord = result.records[0];
    const greeting = singleRecord.get(0);

    console.log(greeting);
  } finally {
    await session.close();
  }

  // on application exit:
  await driver.close();
});

app.listen(port, () => {
  console.log(`Example app listening at http://localhost:${port}`);
});
```

**5.** Run the application with the following command:

```
node program.js
```

You should see an output similar to the following:

```
Node 1: Hello, World!
```

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/client-libraries/nodejs.md, after:

---
title: Node.js quick start
description: Learn to operate Memgraph with Node.js seamlessly. Our documentation instructs to ensure optimized performance of your graph project.
---

# Node.js quick start

At the end of this guide, you will have created a simple Node.js **`Hello, World!`** program that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple
queries.

## Prerequisites

To follow this guide, you will need:

- A **running Memgraph instance**. If you need to set up Memgraph, take a look
  at the [Installation guide](/getting-started/install-memgraph).
- A basic understanding of graph databases and the property graph model.
- The newest version of **Node.js** installed. Instructions on how to setup
  Node. JS can be found on the [official
  website](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

## Basic Setup

We'll be using **Express.js** to demonstrate how to connect to a running
Memgraph instance. Express.js is a web application framework that enables us to
create complete Node.js applications. If you don't won't to use it, the steps
might be slightly different, but the code is either the same or very
similar.

Let's jump in and connect a simple program to Memgraph.

**1.** Create a new directory for your application, for example `/MyApp` and
position yourself in it.<br /> **2.** Create a `package.json` file with the
command:

```
npm init
```

**3.** Install **Express.js** and the **Bolt driver** in the `/MyApp` directory
while adding them to the dependencies list.

```
npm install express --save
npm install neo4j-driver --save
```

**4.** To make the actual program, create a `program.js` file and add the
following code:

```javascript
const express = require("express");
const app = express();
const port = 3000;
var neo4j = require("neo4j-driver");

app.get("/", async (req, res) => {
  const driver = neo4j.driver("bolt://localhost:7687");
  const session = driver.session();

  try {
    const result = await session.writeTransaction((tx) =>
      tx.run(
        'CREATE (a:Greeting) SET a.message = $message RETURN "Node " + id(a) + ": " + a.message',
        {
          message: "Hello, World!",
        }
      )
    );

    const singleRecord = result.records[0];
    const greeting = singleRecord.get(0);

    console.log(greeting);
  } finally {
    await session.close();
  }

  // on application exit:
  await driver.close();
});

app.listen(port, () => {
  console.log(`Example app listening at http://localhost:${port}`);
});
```

**5.** Run the application with the following command:

```
node program.js
```

You should see an output similar to the following:

```
Node 1: Hello, World!
```
