pages/client-libraries/nodejs.mdx, before:

---
title: Node.js quick start
description: Understand the dynamics of Memgraph in association with Node.js. Our documentation spells out the steps for an effective Node.js integration
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from "nextra/components";

# Node.js quick start

Learn how to build an application with Node.js that connects to the Memgraph 
database and executes simple queries.

Running queries directly from a web browser is **not recommended** because of 
additional requirements and possible performance issues. In other words, we 
encourage you to use server-side libraries and clients for top performance 
whenever possible.

## Quickstart

With this Node.js quickstart guide learn the first steps of connecting to 
Memgraph and executing simple queries.

These instructions will guide you through your first steps of connecting to a 
running Memgraph database instance and visualizing your data using Node.js and 
JavaScript.

<Steps>

### Run Memgraph

The easiest way to start Memgraph is by running Memgraph Platform Docker image 
with the following command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

The command above will start [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#install-memgraph-platform), 
which includes [Memgraph database](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#other-available-docker-images), 
[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization#quick-start) and [Memgraph MAGE](/advanced-algorithms#quick-start). 
Memgraph uses Bolt protocol to communicate with the client using the exposed 
7687 port. Memgraph Lab is a web application you can use to visualize the data. 
It's accessible at http://localhost:3000 if Memgraph Platform is running 
correctly. The 7444 port enables Memgraph Lab to access and preview the logs, 
which is why both of these ports need to be exposed. 

For more information visit the getting started guide on 
[how to run Memgraph with Docker](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker).

### Install Node.js 

Install the newest version of Node.js. You can find instructions on how to 
download and install Node.js suitable for your environment on the 
[official Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

### Install JavaScript Driver

To create the following Node.js application, you first need to install the 
JavaScript Driver. 

Run the following *npm* command to install the [Neo4j JavaScript 
Driver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/neo4j-driver):

```
npm i neo4j-driver
```

<Callout type="info">

The Driver requires `npm` and any LTS version of Node.js.

</Callout>

### Set up your script

We'll be using *Express.js* to demonstrate how to connect to a running Memgraph
instance. [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/) is a web application framework 
that enables us to create complete Node.js applications. 

Let's jump in and connect a simple program to Memgraph.

Create a new directory for your application and position yourself in it:

```
mkdir MyApp
cd MyApp
```

Initialize your project and create a `package.json` file with the command:

```
npm init
```

Install *Express.js* and the *Bolt driver* in the `/MyApp` directory while 
adding them to the dependencies list:

```
npm install express --save
npm install neo4j-driver --save
```

To make the actual program, create an `example.js` file and add the following
code:

```js
const express = require("express");
const app = express();
const port = 3000;
var db = require("neo4j-driver");
app.get("/", async (req, res) => {
  const driver = db.driver("bolt://localhost:7687");
  const session = driver.session();
  try {
    const result = await session.executeWrite((tx) =>
      tx.run(
        'CREATE (a:Greeting) SET a.message = $message RETURN "Node " + id(a) + ": " + a.message',
        {
          message: "Hello, World!",
        }
      )
    );
 
    const singleRecord = result.records[0];
    const greeting = singleRecord.get(0);
 
    console.log(greeting);

    res.send("Welcome to Node.js quick start guide!")
  } finally {
    await session.close();
  }
 
  // On application exit:
  await driver.close();
});
 
app.listen(port, () => {
  console.log(`Example app listening at http://localhost:${port}`);
});
```

### Run the script

After running your script with `node example.js` and accessing the root URL
`http://localhost:3000` in your web browser, you should receive the output in 
your terminal similar to this: 

```
Example app listening at http://localhost:3000
Node 1: Hello, World!
```
The output above indicates that you are connected to the database and ready to 
visualize the data you created.

### Visualize the data

To visualize the data created with the script, head over to `localhost:3000` or the 
desktop version of Memgraph Lab and run the following query in the 
*Query Execution* tab: 

```MATCH (n) RETURN n;``` 

The query visualizes the created node and by clicking on it you can explore its 
properties.

![nodejs-quick-start](/pages/client-libraries/nodejs/nodejs-quick-start.png) 

### Next steps

You now have the basic application that connects you to Memgraph, you are ready 
to start building more complex queries on top of it. Happy querying!

</Steps>

## Node.js app usage and examples

Once we covered the basic concept, we can explore more advanced usages of 
applications built with Node.js, explain code snippets and provide more examples.

### Database connection

Once the database is running, you should be able to connect to it in one of two 
ways:

- [Connect without authentication (default)](/client-libraries/javascript#connect-without-authentication-default)
- [Connect with authentication](/client-libraries/javascript#connect-with-authentication)
 
#### Connect without authentication (default)

By default, the Memgraph database is running without authentication, which means 
that you can connect to the database without providing any credentials (username 
and password). If you're running Memgraph locally, the URI should be similar to 
`bolt://localhost:7687`, and if you are running Memgraph on a remote server, 
replace `localhost` with the appropriate IP address. If you ran Memgraph on a 
port different than 7687, do not forget to update that in the URI too.

By default, you can set username and password argument as empty strings. 
This means that you are connecting without authentication.

To connect a Node.js application to the Memgraph database without authentication, 
you can use the following code snippet:

```js
const URI = 'bolt://localhost:7687';
const USER = '';
const PASSWORD = '';
const driver = db.driver(URI, db.auth.basic(USER, PASSWORD));
const session = driver.session();

try {
  const result = await session.executeWrite((tx) =>
    tx.run(
      'CREATE (a:Connection) SET a.message = $message RETURN a.message',
      {
        message: "You are now connected to Memgraph!",
      }
    )
  );

  const singleRecord = result.records[0];
  const greeting = singleRecord.get(0);

  console.log(greeting);

  res.send("Welcome to Memgraph!")
} 
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
finally {
  await session.close();
}

await driver.close();
```

#### Connect with authentication

In order to set up authentication in Memgraph, you need to create a user with a 
`username` and `password`. In Memgraph you can set a username and password by 
executing the following query:

```CREATE USER `memgraph` IDENTIFIED BY 'password';```

Then, you can connect to the database with the following snippet:

```js
const URI = 'bolt://localhost:7687';
const USER = 'memgraph';
const PASSWORD = 'password';
const driver = db.driver(URI, db.auth.basic(USER, PASSWORD));
const session = driver.session();

try {
  const result = await session.executeWrite((tx) =>
    tx.run(
      'CREATE (a:Connection) SET a.message = $message RETURN a.message',
      {
        message: "You are now connected to Memgraph!",
      }
    )
  );

  const singleRecord = result.records[0];
  const greeting = singleRecord.get(0);

  console.log(greeting);

  res.send("Welcome to Memgraph!")
} 
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
finally {
  await session.close();
}

await driver.close();
```

For more details on how to create user with credentials and set authentication, 
visit the [Memgraph authentication guide](/configuration/security#creating-user).

### Query the database

After connecting your driver to Memgraph, you can start running queries. 
The simplest way to execute Cypher queries is by using the `session.run` method.
You can pass a Cypher query as a string to `session.run` and it returns a result 
object that you can use to retrieve data from the query response.

#### Run a create query

The following code snippet contains a query that will create a node inside the 
database:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try {
  const result = await session.executeWrite((tx) =>
    tx.run(`
      CREATE (n:Person {name: "Alice", age: 22}) 
      RETURN n.name as name
      `
    )
  );

  const singleRecord = result.records[0];
  const name = singleRecord.get('name');

  console.log(name);

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
} 
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
finally {
  await session.close();
}
```

The code above creates a session that executes Cypher query that creates a new 
node in the database. Next, it handles any potential errors that may occur 
during the execution. It follows best practices by closing the session the 
finally block to clean up resources and maintain proper database connection 
management.

#### Run a read query

The following code snippet contains a query that will read and retrieve data 
from the database:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try{
  result = await session.executeRead((tx) =>
    tx.run(`  
      MATCH (p:Person) WHERE p.name = 'Alice'
      RETURN p.name as name
      `
    )
  )
  for(let record of result.records) {  
    console.log(record.get('name'))
  }

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
}
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
} finally {
  session.close();
}
```

### Process the results

Processing results from the database is important since we do not want to lose 
any data during conversions. To properly read results and serve them back to the 
JavaScript application, they need to be cast into proper types.

Depending on the type of request made, you can receive different results, Nodes, 
Relationships, Paths etc. Let's go over a few basic examples of how to handle 
different types and access properties of the returned results.

First, we're going to create a dataset in order to provide input to process our
results. If you wish to follow along, below are provided queries to recreate the
same dataset used.

<details>
  <summary>Dataset</summary>
  ```cypher
  MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 0, name: 'Michael', title:'Regional Manager'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 1, name: 'Dwight', title:'Assistant to the Regional Manager'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 2, name: 'Jim', title:'Salesman'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 3, name: 'Meredith', title:'Supplier Relations'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 4, name: 'Creed', title:'Quality Assurance Director'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 5, name: 'Angela', title:'Head of the Planning Committee'});
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:BOSS_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:BOSS_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:BOSS_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:BOSS_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:WORKS_FOR]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:WORKS_FOR]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  ```
</details>

#### Process the Node result

In order to process the result, you need to read them first. You can do that 
with the following code snippet:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try{
  result = await session.executeRead(async tx => { 
    // Use the method `Transaction.run()` to run queries
    return await tx.run(`  
      MATCH (n:Node) WHERE n.title = 'Regional Manager' 
      RETURN "Id: " + n.id + ", Name: " + n.name + ", Title: " + n.title as output
      `
    )
  })
  // Process the result records
  for(let record of result.records) { 
    console.log(record.get('output'))
  }

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
}
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
} finally {
  session.close();
}
```

The provided code snippet matches the node with the property `title` being 
"Regional Manager", runs a for loop through all the retrieved results and 
processes them. Assuming that the matched node has properties `id`, `name` and 
`title`, the output should be similar to this:

```
Id: 0, Name: Michael, Title: Regional Manager
```

#### Process the Relationship result

You can also receive a relationship information from a query. Let's say we want 
to retrieve from the database all of the relationships with type `WORKS_FOR`:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try{
  // Read a relationship between two nodes with 'WORKS_FOR' type
  result = await session.executeRead(async tx => { 
    return await tx.run(`  
      MATCH (a:Node)-[r:WORKS_FOR]->(b:Node) RETURN r;
      `
    )
  })
  
  // Process the results
  for(let record of result.records) { 
    console.log(record.get('r'))
  }

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
}
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
} finally {
  session.close();
}
```
The `console.log(record.get('r'))` functions retrieve
all of the information about certain relationships. If you're only 
interested in, for example, the relationship type, ID of the start node and ID of 
the end node, you can replace that line of code with the following code:

```
console.log("Relationship type: ", record.get('r').type)
console.log("Start node ID: ", record.get('r').startNodeElementId)
console.log("End node ID: ", record.get('r').endNodeElementId)
```
It will produce the following output:

```
Relationship type:  USES
Start node ID:  <ID>
End node ID:  <ID>
```

#### Process the Path result

You can receive paths from the database. Let's say we want 
to retrieve all of the paths containing the connections of user named `Michael`.
Since we are only reading from the database, we're going to use the `executeRead` 
method:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try{
  result = await session.executeRead(async tx => { 
    return await tx.run(`  
      MATCH p=(:Developer {name:'Michael'})-[]->() RETURN p
      `
    )
  })
  
  // Process the results
  for(let record of result.records) { 
    console.log(record.get('p'))
  }

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
}
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
} finally {
  session.close();
}
```

Path will contain [Nodes](#process-the-node-result) and 
[Relationships](#process-the-relationship-result), that can be accessed in 
the same way as in the previous examples, by casting them to the relevant type.

### Transactions management

When querying the database, the driver automatically creates a transaction. 
A transaction is a unit of work that is either *committed* in its entirety 
or *rolled back* on failure. For more advanced use-cases, the driver provides 
functions to take full control over the **transaction lifecycle**.

#### Automatic transactions

When you execute a query using `session.run`, the driver automatically creates 
a transaction to encapsulate the Cypher queries you're executing. This automatic 
transaction management simplifies the process of working with transactions. 
That method should be used when transaction control is unnecessary. 

#### Manual transactions

Before running a transaction, you need to obtain a *session*. Sessions act 
as concrete query channels between the driver and the server, and ensure 
causal consistency is enforced. 

`session = driver.session()`

<Callout type="info">

Sessions are not thread-safe, which means you can share the main Driver object 
across threads, but make sure each thread creates its own sessions.

</Callout>

##### Managed transactions

A transaction can contain any number of queries. As Memgraph is 
**ACID compliant**, queries within a transaction will either be executed as a 
whole or not at all. You cannot get a part of the transaction succeeding and 
another failing. Use transactions to group together related queries which work 
together to achieve a single logical database operation.

A **managed transaction** is created using the `session.executeRead()` and 
`session.executeWrite()` methods, depending on whether you want to retrieve data 
from the database or alter it. Both methods take a transaction function callback, 
which is responsible for carrying out the queries and processing the results. 
Here's an example of a managed transaction using the `session.executeRead()` 
method.

```js
try {
  let session, result
  // Create a session
  session = driver.session()

  // The `.executeRead()` method is the entry point into a transaction  
  result = await session.executeRead(async tx => { 
    // Use the method `Transaction.run()` to run queries
    return await tx.run(`  
      MATCH (p:Person) WHERE p.name = 'Alice'
      RETURN p.name as name ORDER BY name
      `
    )
  })
  // Process the result records
  for(let record of result.records) {  
    console.log(record.get('name'))
  }
} finally {
  // Remember to close session when done
  session.close()
}

```

Within a transaction function, a return statement results in the transaction 
being committed, while the transaction is **automatically rolled back** if an 
exception is raised.

Because of this, it is impossible to know how many time the transaction is going 
to be executed, so transaction functions should produce the same results even 
when run several times. This means you shouldn't, for example, edit nor rely on 
globals. Note that although transaction functions might be executed multiple 
times, the queries inside it will always run only once.

##### Explicit transactions

You can achieve full control over transactions by manually starting them using 
the `session.beginTransaction()` method. You run queries inside an explicit 
transaction with the `Transaction.run()` method, as you do in transaction 
functions.

```js
let session = driver.session({ database: 'neo4j' })
let transaction = await session.beginTransaction()

// await transaction.run('<QUERY 1>')
// await transaction.run('<QUERY 2>')
// ...

await transaction.close()
await session.close()
```

The behavior and lifetime of an explicit transaction is controlled using the 
`Transaction.commit()`, `Transaction.rollback()`, or `Transaction.close()` 
methods.

Explicit transactions are useful when applications need to distribute Cypher 
execution across multiple functions for the same transaction or run multiple 
queries within a single transaction but without the automatic retries provided 
by managed transactions.

Commit message:

Add retry notes to supported clients. (#291)
* Add context for transient errors.

* Update grammar.

pages/client-libraries/nodejs.mdx, after:

---
title: Node.js quick start
description: Understand the dynamics of Memgraph in association with Node.js. Our documentation spells out the steps for an effective Node.js integration
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from "nextra/components";

# Node.js quick start

Learn how to build an application with Node.js that connects to the Memgraph 
database and executes simple queries.

Running queries directly from a web browser is **not recommended** because of 
additional requirements and possible performance issues. In other words, we 
encourage you to use server-side libraries and clients for top performance 
whenever possible.

## Quickstart

With this Node.js quickstart guide learn the first steps of connecting to 
Memgraph and executing simple queries.

These instructions will guide you through your first steps of connecting to a 
running Memgraph database instance and visualizing your data using Node.js and 
JavaScript.

<Steps>

### Run Memgraph

The easiest way to start Memgraph is by running Memgraph Platform Docker image 
with the following command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 --name memgraph memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

The command above will start [Memgraph Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#install-memgraph-platform), 
which includes [Memgraph database](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker#other-available-docker-images), 
[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization#quick-start) and [Memgraph MAGE](/advanced-algorithms#quick-start). 
Memgraph uses Bolt protocol to communicate with the client using the exposed 
7687 port. Memgraph Lab is a web application you can use to visualize the data. 
It's accessible at http://localhost:3000 if Memgraph Platform is running 
correctly. The 7444 port enables Memgraph Lab to access and preview the logs, 
which is why both of these ports need to be exposed. 

For more information visit the getting started guide on 
[how to run Memgraph with Docker](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker).

### Install Node.js 

Install the newest version of Node.js. You can find instructions on how to 
download and install Node.js suitable for your environment on the 
[official Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

### Install JavaScript Driver

To create the following Node.js application, you first need to install the 
JavaScript Driver. 

Run the following *npm* command to install the [Neo4j JavaScript 
Driver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/neo4j-driver):

```
npm i neo4j-driver
```

<Callout type="info">

The Driver requires `npm` and any LTS version of Node.js.

</Callout>

### Set up your script

We'll be using *Express.js* to demonstrate how to connect to a running Memgraph
instance. [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/) is a web application framework 
that enables us to create complete Node.js applications. 

Let's jump in and connect a simple program to Memgraph.

Create a new directory for your application and position yourself in it:

```
mkdir MyApp
cd MyApp
```

Initialize your project and create a `package.json` file with the command:

```
npm init
```

Install *Express.js* and the *Bolt driver* in the `/MyApp` directory while 
adding them to the dependencies list:

```
npm install express --save
npm install neo4j-driver --save
```

To make the actual program, create an `example.js` file and add the following
code:

```js
const express = require("express");
const app = express();
const port = 3000;
var db = require("neo4j-driver");
app.get("/", async (req, res) => {
  const driver = db.driver("bolt://localhost:7687");
  const session = driver.session();
  try {
    const result = await session.executeWrite((tx) =>
      tx.run(
        'CREATE (a:Greeting) SET a.message = $message RETURN "Node " + id(a) + ": " + a.message',
        {
          message: "Hello, World!",
        }
      )
    );
 
    const singleRecord = result.records[0];
    const greeting = singleRecord.get(0);
 
    console.log(greeting);

    res.send("Welcome to Node.js quick start guide!")
  } finally {
    await session.close();
  }
 
  // On application exit:
  await driver.close();
});
 
app.listen(port, () => {
  console.log(`Example app listening at http://localhost:${port}`);
});
```

### Run the script

After running your script with `node example.js` and accessing the root URL
`http://localhost:3000` in your web browser, you should receive the output in 
your terminal similar to this: 

```
Example app listening at http://localhost:3000
Node 1: Hello, World!
```
The output above indicates that you are connected to the database and ready to 
visualize the data you created.

### Visualize the data

To visualize the data created with the script, head over to `localhost:3000` or the 
desktop version of Memgraph Lab and run the following query in the 
*Query Execution* tab: 

```MATCH (n) RETURN n;``` 

The query visualizes the created node and by clicking on it you can explore its 
properties.

![nodejs-quick-start](/pages/client-libraries/nodejs/nodejs-quick-start.png) 

### Next steps

You now have the basic application that connects you to Memgraph, you are ready 
to start building more complex queries on top of it. Happy querying!

</Steps>

## Node.js app usage and examples

Once we covered the basic concept, we can explore more advanced usages of 
applications built with Node.js, explain code snippets and provide more examples.

### Database connection

Once the database is running, you should be able to connect to it in one of two 
ways:

- [Connect without authentication (default)](/client-libraries/javascript#connect-without-authentication-default)
- [Connect with authentication](/client-libraries/javascript#connect-with-authentication)
 
#### Connect without authentication (default)

By default, the Memgraph database is running without authentication, which means 
that you can connect to the database without providing any credentials (username 
and password). If you're running Memgraph locally, the URI should be similar to 
`bolt://localhost:7687`, and if you are running Memgraph on a remote server, 
replace `localhost` with the appropriate IP address. If you ran Memgraph on a 
port different than 7687, do not forget to update that in the URI too.

By default, you can set username and password argument as empty strings. 
This means that you are connecting without authentication.

To connect a Node.js application to the Memgraph database without authentication, 
you can use the following code snippet:

```js
const URI = 'bolt://localhost:7687';
const USER = '';
const PASSWORD = '';
const driver = db.driver(URI, db.auth.basic(USER, PASSWORD));
const session = driver.session();

try {
  const result = await session.executeWrite((tx) =>
    tx.run(
      'CREATE (a:Connection) SET a.message = $message RETURN a.message',
      {
        message: "You are now connected to Memgraph!",
      }
    )
  );

  const singleRecord = result.records[0];
  const greeting = singleRecord.get(0);

  console.log(greeting);

  res.send("Welcome to Memgraph!")
} 
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
finally {
  await session.close();
}

await driver.close();
```

#### Connect with authentication

In order to set up authentication in Memgraph, you need to create a user with a 
`username` and `password`. In Memgraph you can set a username and password by 
executing the following query:

```CREATE USER `memgraph` IDENTIFIED BY 'password';```

Then, you can connect to the database with the following snippet:

```js
const URI = 'bolt://localhost:7687';
const USER = 'memgraph';
const PASSWORD = 'password';
const driver = db.driver(URI, db.auth.basic(USER, PASSWORD));
const session = driver.session();

try {
  const result = await session.executeWrite((tx) =>
    tx.run(
      'CREATE (a:Connection) SET a.message = $message RETURN a.message',
      {
        message: "You are now connected to Memgraph!",
      }
    )
  );

  const singleRecord = result.records[0];
  const greeting = singleRecord.get(0);

  console.log(greeting);

  res.send("Welcome to Memgraph!")
} 
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
finally {
  await session.close();
}

await driver.close();
```

For more details on how to create user with credentials and set authentication, 
visit the [Memgraph authentication guide](/configuration/security#creating-user).

### Query the database

After connecting your driver to Memgraph, you can start running queries. 
The simplest way to execute Cypher queries is by using the `session.run` method.
You can pass a Cypher query as a string to `session.run` and it returns a result 
object that you can use to retrieve data from the query response.

#### Run a create query

The following code snippet contains a query that will create a node inside the 
database:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try {
  const result = await session.executeWrite((tx) =>
    tx.run(`
      CREATE (n:Person {name: "Alice", age: 22}) 
      RETURN n.name as name
      `
    )
  );

  const singleRecord = result.records[0];
  const name = singleRecord.get('name');

  console.log(name);

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
} 
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
}
finally {
  await session.close();
}
```

The code above creates a session that executes Cypher query that creates a new 
node in the database. Next, it handles any potential errors that may occur 
during the execution. It follows best practices by closing the session the 
finally block to clean up resources and maintain proper database connection 
management.

#### Run a read query

The following code snippet contains a query that will read and retrieve data 
from the database:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try{
  result = await session.executeRead((tx) =>
    tx.run(`  
      MATCH (p:Person) WHERE p.name = 'Alice'
      RETURN p.name as name
      `
    )
  )
  for(let record of result.records) {  
    console.log(record.get('name'))
  }

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
}
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
} finally {
  session.close();
}
```

### Process the results

Processing results from the database is important since we do not want to lose 
any data during conversions. To properly read results and serve them back to the 
JavaScript application, they need to be cast into proper types.

Depending on the type of request made, you can receive different results, Nodes, 
Relationships, Paths etc. Let's go over a few basic examples of how to handle 
different types and access properties of the returned results.

First, we're going to create a dataset in order to provide input to process our
results. If you wish to follow along, below are provided queries to recreate the
same dataset used.

<details>
  <summary>Dataset</summary>
  ```cypher
  MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 0, name: 'Michael', title:'Regional Manager'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 1, name: 'Dwight', title:'Assistant to the Regional Manager'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 2, name: 'Jim', title:'Salesman'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 3, name: 'Meredith', title:'Supplier Relations'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 4, name: 'Creed', title:'Quality Assurance Director'});
  CREATE (a:Node {id: 5, name: 'Angela', title:'Head of the Planning Committee'});
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:BOSS_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:BOSS_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:BOSS_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:BOSS_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:WORKS_FOR]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:WORKS_FOR]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:COLLEAGUE_TO]->(b);
  ```
</details>

#### Process the Node result

In order to process the result, you need to read them first. You can do that 
with the following code snippet:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try{
  result = await session.executeRead(async tx => { 
    // Use the method `Transaction.run()` to run queries
    return await tx.run(`  
      MATCH (n:Node) WHERE n.title = 'Regional Manager' 
      RETURN "Id: " + n.id + ", Name: " + n.name + ", Title: " + n.title as output
      `
    )
  })
  // Process the result records
  for(let record of result.records) { 
    console.log(record.get('output'))
  }

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
}
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
} finally {
  session.close();
}
```

The provided code snippet matches the node with the property `title` being 
"Regional Manager", runs a for loop through all the retrieved results and 
processes them. Assuming that the matched node has properties `id`, `name` and 
`title`, the output should be similar to this:

```
Id: 0, Name: Michael, Title: Regional Manager
```

#### Process the Relationship result

You can also receive a relationship information from a query. Let's say we want 
to retrieve from the database all of the relationships with type `WORKS_FOR`:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try{
  // Read a relationship between two nodes with 'WORKS_FOR' type
  result = await session.executeRead(async tx => { 
    return await tx.run(`  
      MATCH (a:Node)-[r:WORKS_FOR]->(b:Node) RETURN r;
      `
    )
  })
  
  // Process the results
  for(let record of result.records) { 
    console.log(record.get('r'))
  }

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
}
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
} finally {
  session.close();
}
```
The `console.log(record.get('r'))` functions retrieve
all of the information about certain relationships. If you're only 
interested in, for example, the relationship type, ID of the start node and ID of 
the end node, you can replace that line of code with the following code:

```
console.log("Relationship type: ", record.get('r').type)
console.log("Start node ID: ", record.get('r').startNodeElementId)
console.log("End node ID: ", record.get('r').endNodeElementId)
```
It will produce the following output:

```
Relationship type:  USES
Start node ID:  <ID>
End node ID:  <ID>
```

#### Process the Path result

You can receive paths from the database. Let's say we want 
to retrieve all of the paths containing the connections of user named `Michael`.
Since we are only reading from the database, we're going to use the `executeRead` 
method:

```js
const session = driver.session();
try{
  result = await session.executeRead(async tx => { 
    return await tx.run(`  
      MATCH p=(:Developer {name:'Michael'})-[]->() RETURN p
      `
    )
  })
  
  // Process the results
  for(let record of result.records) { 
    console.log(record.get('p'))
  }

  res.send("Visualize your data in Memgraph Lab.")
}
catch (error) {
  console.error(error);
} finally {
  session.close();
}
```

Path will contain [Nodes](#process-the-node-result) and 
[Relationships](#process-the-relationship-result), that can be accessed in 
the same way as in the previous examples, by casting them to the relevant type.

### Transactions management

When querying the database, the driver automatically creates a transaction. 
A transaction is a unit of work that is either *committed* in its entirety 
or *rolled back* on failure. For more advanced use-cases, the driver provides 
functions to take full control over the **transaction lifecycle**.

On the driver side, if a transaction fails because of a transient error, the transaction is retried automatically. 
The transient error will occur during write conflicts or network failures. The driver will retry the transaction function with an exponentially increasing delay.

#### Automatic transactions

When you execute a query using `session.run`, the driver automatically creates 
a transaction to encapsulate the Cypher queries you're executing. This automatic 
transaction management simplifies the process of working with transactions. 
That method should be used when transaction control is unnecessary. 

#### Manual transactions

Before running a transaction, you need to obtain a *session*. Sessions act 
as concrete query channels between the driver and the server, and ensure 
causal consistency is enforced. 

`session = driver.session()`

<Callout type="info">

Sessions are not thread-safe, which means you can share the main Driver object 
across threads, but make sure each thread creates its own sessions.

</Callout>

##### Managed transactions

A transaction can contain any number of queries. As Memgraph is 
**ACID compliant**, queries within a transaction will either be executed as a 
whole or not at all. You cannot get a part of the transaction succeeding and 
another failing. Use transactions to group together related queries which work 
together to achieve a single logical database operation.

A **managed transaction** is created using the `session.executeRead()` and 
`session.executeWrite()` methods, depending on whether you want to retrieve data 
from the database or alter it. Both methods take a transaction function callback, 
which is responsible for carrying out the queries and processing the results. 
Here's an example of a managed transaction using the `session.executeRead()` 
method.

```js
try {
  let session, result
  // Create a session
  session = driver.session()

  // The `.executeRead()` method is the entry point into a transaction  
  result = await session.executeRead(async tx => { 
    // Use the method `Transaction.run()` to run queries
    return await tx.run(`  
      MATCH (p:Person) WHERE p.name = 'Alice'
      RETURN p.name as name ORDER BY name
      `
    )
  })
  // Process the result records
  for(let record of result.records) {  
    console.log(record.get('name'))
  }
} finally {
  // Remember to close session when done
  session.close()
}

```

Within a transaction function, a return statement results in the transaction 
being committed, while the transaction is **automatically rolled back** if an 
exception is raised.

Because of this, it is impossible to know how many time the transaction is going 
to be executed, so transaction functions should produce the same results even 
when run several times. This means you shouldn't, for example, edit nor rely on 
globals. Note that although transaction functions might be executed multiple 
times, the queries inside it will always run only once.

##### Explicit transactions

You can achieve full control over transactions by manually starting them using 
the `session.beginTransaction()` method. You run queries inside an explicit 
transaction with the `Transaction.run()` method, as you do in transaction 
functions.

```js
let session = driver.session({ database: 'neo4j' })
let transaction = await session.beginTransaction()

// await transaction.run('<QUERY 1>')
// await transaction.run('<QUERY 2>')
// ...

await transaction.close()
await session.close()
```

The behavior and lifetime of an explicit transaction is controlled using the 
`Transaction.commit()`, `Transaction.rollback()`, or `Transaction.close()` 
methods.

Explicit transactions are useful when applications need to distribute Cypher 
execution across multiple functions for the same transaction or run multiple 
queries within a single transaction but without the automatic retries provided 
by managed transactions.
