pages/client-libraries/php.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

#  PHP quick start

At the end of this guide, you will have created a simple PHP **`Hello, World!`**
program that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple queries.

## Prerequisites

To follow this guide, you will need:

- A **running Memgraph instance**. If you need to set up Memgraph, take a look
  at the [Installation guide](/getting-started/install-memgraph).
- A basic understanding of graph databases and the property graph model.
- **Composer**, a tool for dependency management in PHP. Instructions on how to
  install Composer can be found [here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md).

<Callout type="info">

We recommend using the **[Bolt driver](https://github.com/neo4j-php/Bolt)** for
PHP.

</Callout>

## Basic Setup

We'll be using a very simple **PHP script** in combination with **Composer** to
demonstrate how to connect to a running Memgraph instance.

Let's jump in and connect a simple program to Memgraph.

**1.** Create a new directory for your application, for example `/MyApp` and
position yourself in it.<br /> **2.** Create a `index.php` file and add the
following code to it:

```php
<?php
require_once __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';

// Create a connection class and specify target host and port, default is localhost.
$conn = new \Bolt\connection\Socket();
// Create a new Bolt instance and provide connection object.
$bolt = new \Bolt\Bolt($conn);
// Set available Bolt versions for Memgraph.
$bolt->setProtocolVersions(4.1, 4, 3);
// Build and get protocol version instance which creates connection and executes handshake.
$protocol = $bolt->build();
// Login to database with credentials.
$protocol->hello(\Bolt\helpers\Auth::basic('username', 'password'));

// Pipeline two messages. One to execute query with parameters and second to pull records.
$protocol
    ->run('CREATE (a:Greeting) SET a.message = $message RETURN id(a) AS nodeId, a.message AS message', ['message' => 'Hello, World!'])
    ->pull();

// Server responses are waiting to be fetched through iterator.
$rows = iterator_to_array($protocol->getResponses(), false);
// Get content from requested record.
$row = $rows[1]->getContent();

echo 'Node ' . $row[0] . ' says: ' . $row[1];
```

If you need SSL connection you have to replace `Socket` instance with `StreamSocket` and enable SSL with additional method.

```php
$conn = new \Bolt\connection\StreamSocket('URI or IP', 7687);
$conn->setSslContextOptions([
    'verify_peer' => true
]);
```

If you want to connect to Memgraph Cloud you have to set these parameters.

```php
$conn = new \Bolt\connection\StreamSocket('URI or IP', 7687);
$conn->setSslContextOptions([
    'peer_name' => 'Memgraph DB',
    'allow_self_signed' => true
]);
```

**3.** Run a composer command to get the required library:

```sh
composer require stefanak-michal/memgraph-bolt-wrapper
```

It will auto create `composer.json` file.

**4.** Start the application with the following command:

```
php -S localhost:4000
```

Open you browser, enter `localhost:4000` as URL and you should see an output similar to the following:

```
Node 1 says: Hello, World!
```

## Where to next?

Check out the [PHP Bolt driver repository](https://github.com/neo4j-php/Bolt) to learn more about using the PHP Bolt library.

You can simplify usage of this library with wrapper [Memgraph Bolt wrapper](https://github.com/stefanak-michal/memgraph-bolt-wrapper).

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/client-libraries/php.mdx, after:

---
title: PHP quick start
description: Get to grips with Memgraph operations via PHP. Our detailed guide navigates you to proficient use of PHP for graph computing needs.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

#  PHP quick start

At the end of this guide, you will have created a simple PHP **`Hello, World!`**
program that connects to the Memgraph database and executes simple queries.

## Prerequisites

To follow this guide, you will need:

- A **running Memgraph instance**. If you need to set up Memgraph, take a look
  at the [Installation guide](/getting-started/install-memgraph).
- A basic understanding of graph databases and the property graph model.
- **Composer**, a tool for dependency management in PHP. Instructions on how to
  install Composer can be found [here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md).

<Callout type="info">

We recommend using the **[Bolt driver](https://github.com/neo4j-php/Bolt)** for
PHP.

</Callout>

## Basic Setup

We'll be using a very simple **PHP script** in combination with **Composer** to
demonstrate how to connect to a running Memgraph instance.

Let's jump in and connect a simple program to Memgraph.

**1.** Create a new directory for your application, for example `/MyApp` and
position yourself in it.<br /> **2.** Create a `index.php` file and add the
following code to it:

```php
<?php
require_once __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';

// Create a connection class and specify target host and port, default is localhost.
$conn = new \Bolt\connection\Socket();
// Create a new Bolt instance and provide connection object.
$bolt = new \Bolt\Bolt($conn);
// Set available Bolt versions for Memgraph.
$bolt->setProtocolVersions(4.1, 4, 3);
// Build and get protocol version instance which creates connection and executes handshake.
$protocol = $bolt->build();
// Login to database with credentials.
$protocol->hello(\Bolt\helpers\Auth::basic('username', 'password'));

// Pipeline two messages. One to execute query with parameters and second to pull records.
$protocol
    ->run('CREATE (a:Greeting) SET a.message = $message RETURN id(a) AS nodeId, a.message AS message', ['message' => 'Hello, World!'])
    ->pull();

// Server responses are waiting to be fetched through iterator.
$rows = iterator_to_array($protocol->getResponses(), false);
// Get content from requested record.
$row = $rows[1]->getContent();

echo 'Node ' . $row[0] . ' says: ' . $row[1];
```

If you need SSL connection you have to replace `Socket` instance with `StreamSocket` and enable SSL with additional method.

```php
$conn = new \Bolt\connection\StreamSocket('URI or IP', 7687);
$conn->setSslContextOptions([
    'verify_peer' => true
]);
```

If you want to connect to Memgraph Cloud you have to set these parameters.

```php
$conn = new \Bolt\connection\StreamSocket('URI or IP', 7687);
$conn->setSslContextOptions([
    'peer_name' => 'Memgraph DB',
    'allow_self_signed' => true
]);
```

**3.** Run a composer command to get the required library:

```sh
composer require stefanak-michal/memgraph-bolt-wrapper
```

It will auto create `composer.json` file.

**4.** Start the application with the following command:

```
php -S localhost:4000
```

Open you browser, enter `localhost:4000` as URL and you should see an output similar to the following:

```
Node 1 says: Hello, World!
```

## Where to next?

Check out the [PHP Bolt driver repository](https://github.com/neo4j-php/Bolt) to learn more about using the PHP Bolt library.

You can simplify usage of this library with wrapper [Memgraph Bolt wrapper](https://github.com/stefanak-michal/memgraph-bolt-wrapper).
