pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/betweenness_centrality.mdx, before:

---
title: betweenness_centrality
description: Advance your graph analysis capabilities with Memgraph's betweenness centrality. Learn via detailed documentation how to leverage the advanced computation to process tailored queries.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# betweenness_centrality

In network studies, centrality analysis illuminates the significance of nodes,
with betweenness centrality being one of the most important metrics. It
determines the importance of a node based on how frequently it lies on the
shortest paths between other nodes, signifying its influence on information flow
within the network. Such nodes, possessing high betweenness, often act as
gatekeepers in controlling the transmission of information.

While the concept of betweenness centrality revolves around shortest paths,
defined by the fewest relationships or minimal cumulative relationship weight in
weighted graphs, the calculation methodologies can vary. One notable method is
described in the paper ["A Faster Algorithm for Betweenness
Centrality"](http://www.uvm.edu/pdodds/research/papers/others/2001/brandes2001a.pdf)(Brandes,
2001).

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/betweenness_centrality_module/betweenness_centrality_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm           |
| **Implementation**  | C++                 |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | unweighted          |
| **Parallelism**     | parallel            |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get()`

The procedure returns the betweenness centrality values.

{<h4> Input: </h4>} 

- `directed: boolean (default=True)` ➡ If `False` the direction of the relationships is ignored.
- `normalized: boolean (default=True)` ➡ If `True` the betweenness values are normalized by
  `2/((n-1)(n-2))` for graphs, and `1/((n-1)(n-2))` for directed graphs where
  `n` is the number of nodes.
- `threads: integer (default=number of concurrent threads supported by the
  implementation)` ➡ The number of threads used to calculate betweenness
  centrality.

{<h4> Output: </h4>} 

- `betweenness_centrality: float` ➡ The value of betweenness centrality for a given node.
- `node: Vertex` ➡ Graph node for betweenness calculation.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>} 

```cypher
CALL betweenness_centrality.get()
YIELD node, betweenness_centrality;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/betweenness_centrality/betweenness-centrality-1.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 11}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 11}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

{<h3> Calculate betwenness centrality </h3>} 

Get the values using the following query:

```cypher
CALL betweenness_centrality.get(TRUE,TRUE)
YIELD node, betweenness_centrality
RETURN node, betweenness_centrality;
```

Results: 

```plaintext
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| node                    | betweenness_centrality  |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| (:Node {id: 0})         | 0                       |
| (:Node {id: 1})         | 0.109091                |
| (:Node {id: 2})         | 0.0272727               |
| (:Node {id: 3})         | 0                       |
| (:Node {id: 4})         | 0.0454545               |
| (:Node {id: 5})         | 0.2                     |
| (:Node {id: 6})         | 0.0636364               |
| (:Node {id: 7})         | 0                       |
| (:Node {id: 8})         | 0.0181818               |
| (:Node {id: 9})         | 0.0909091               |
| (:Node {id: 10})        | 0                       |
| (:Node {id: 11})        | 0.0181818               |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
```
</Steps>

Commit message:

Add subgraph as optional argument to MAGE procedures (#798)
* Add subgraph  syntax

* Update order

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/betweenness_centrality.mdx, after:

---
title: betweenness_centrality
description: Advance your graph analysis capabilities with Memgraph's betweenness centrality. Learn via detailed documentation how to leverage the advanced computation to process tailored queries.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# betweenness_centrality

In network studies, centrality analysis illuminates the significance of nodes,
with betweenness centrality being one of the most important metrics. It
determines the importance of a node based on how frequently it lies on the
shortest paths between other nodes, signifying its influence on information flow
within the network. Such nodes, possessing high betweenness, often act as
gatekeepers in controlling the transmission of information.

While the concept of betweenness centrality revolves around shortest paths,
defined by the fewest relationships or minimal cumulative relationship weight in
weighted graphs, the calculation methodologies can vary. One notable method is
described in the paper ["A Faster Algorithm for Betweenness
Centrality"](http://www.uvm.edu/pdodds/research/papers/others/2001/brandes2001a.pdf)(Brandes,
2001).

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/betweenness_centrality_module/betweenness_centrality_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm           |
| **Implementation**  | C++                 |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | unweighted          |
| **Parallelism**     | parallel            |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get()`

The procedure returns the betweenness centrality values.

{<h4> Input: </h4>} 

- `subgraph: Graph` (optional) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an object of type Graph returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.
- `directed: boolean (default=True)` ➡ If `False` the direction of the relationships is ignored.
- `normalized: boolean (default=True)` ➡ If `True` the betweenness values are normalized by
  `2/((n-1)(n-2))` for graphs, and `1/((n-1)(n-2))` for directed graphs where
  `n` is the number of nodes.
- `threads: integer (default=number of concurrent threads supported by the
  implementation)` ➡ The number of threads used to calculate betweenness
  centrality.


{<h4> Output: </h4>} 

- `betweenness_centrality: float` ➡ The value of betweenness centrality for a given node.
- `node: Vertex` ➡ Graph node for betweenness calculation.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>} 

```cypher
CALL betweenness_centrality.get()
YIELD node, betweenness_centrality;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/betweenness_centrality/betweenness-centrality-1.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 11}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 11}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

{<h3> Calculate betwenness centrality </h3>} 

Get the values using the following query:

```cypher
CALL betweenness_centrality.get(TRUE,TRUE)
YIELD node, betweenness_centrality
RETURN node, betweenness_centrality;
```

Results: 

```plaintext
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| node                    | betweenness_centrality  |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| (:Node {id: 0})         | 0                       |
| (:Node {id: 1})         | 0.109091                |
| (:Node {id: 2})         | 0.0272727               |
| (:Node {id: 3})         | 0                       |
| (:Node {id: 4})         | 0.0454545               |
| (:Node {id: 5})         | 0.2                     |
| (:Node {id: 6})         | 0.0636364               |
| (:Node {id: 7})         | 0                       |
| (:Node {id: 8})         | 0.0181818               |
| (:Node {id: 9})         | 0.0909091               |
| (:Node {id: 10})        | 0                       |
| (:Node {id: 11})        | 0.0181818               |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
```
</Steps>
