pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/biconnected_components.mdx, before:

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# biconnected_components

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

Finding biconnected components means finding a maximal biconnected subgraph. Subgraph is biconnected if:

- It is possible to go from each node to another within a biconnected subgraph
- First scenario remains true even after removing any vertex in the subgraph

The algorithm works by finding articulation points, and then traversing from these articulation points toward other nodes, which all together form one biconnected component.

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-biconnected_components-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/biconnected_components_module/biconnected_components_module.cpp)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**algorithm**</Highlight>  |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**C++**</Highlight>        |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**undirected**</Highlight> |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight> |

## Procedures

### `get()`

#### Output:

* `bcc_id` ➡ Biconnected component identifier. There is no order of nodes within one biconnected component.
* `node_from` ➡ First node of an edge contained in biconnected component.
* `node_to` ➡ Second node of an edge contained in biconnected component

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL biconnected_components.get()
YIELD bcc_id, node_from, node_to;
```

## Example

<Steps>
### Input graph
![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/biconnected_components/biconnected-components-1.png)

### Cypher load commands
```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 7}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 11}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command
```cypher
CALL biconnected_components.get()
YIELD bcc_id, node_from, node_to
WITH bcc_id, node_from, node_to
MATCH (node_from)-[edge]-(node_to)
RETURN bcc_id, edge, node_from, node_to;
```

### Results
```plaintext
+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
| bcc_id           | edge             | node_from        | node_to          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 2})  | (:Node {id: 4})  |
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 3})  | (:Node {id: 4})  |
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 1})  | (:Node {id: 3})  |
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 2})  | (:Node {id: 3})  |
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 1})  | (:Node {id: 2})  |
| 1                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 8})  | (:Node {id: 9})  |
| 2                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 5})  | (:Node {id: 8})  |
| 2                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 7})  | (:Node {id: 8})  |
| 2                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 5})  | (:Node {id: 7})  |
| 3                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 0})  | (:Node {id: 6})  |
| 3                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 5})  | (:Node {id: 6})  |
| 3                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 1})  | (:Node {id: 5})  |
| 3                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 0})  | (:Node {id: 1})  |
| 4                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 10}) | (:Node {id: 11}) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
```
</Steps>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/biconnected_components.mdx, after:

---
title: biconnected_components
description: Harvest the analysis power of Memgraph's biconnected component algorithm. Learn through tutorials and comprehensive documentation how to harness the advanced algorithm's potential via tailored queries.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# biconnected_components

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

Finding biconnected components means finding a maximal biconnected subgraph. Subgraph is biconnected if:

- It is possible to go from each node to another within a biconnected subgraph
- First scenario remains true even after removing any vertex in the subgraph

The algorithm works by finding articulation points, and then traversing from these articulation points toward other nodes, which all together form one biconnected component.

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-biconnected_components-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/biconnected_components_module/biconnected_components_module.cpp)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**algorithm**</Highlight>  |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**C++**</Highlight>        |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**undirected**</Highlight> |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight> |

## Procedures

### `get()`

#### Output:

* `bcc_id` ➡ Biconnected component identifier. There is no order of nodes within one biconnected component.
* `node_from` ➡ First node of an edge contained in biconnected component.
* `node_to` ➡ Second node of an edge contained in biconnected component

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL biconnected_components.get()
YIELD bcc_id, node_from, node_to;
```

## Example

<Steps>
### Input graph
![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/biconnected_components/biconnected-components-1.png)

### Cypher load commands
```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 7}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 11}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command
```cypher
CALL biconnected_components.get()
YIELD bcc_id, node_from, node_to
WITH bcc_id, node_from, node_to
MATCH (node_from)-[edge]-(node_to)
RETURN bcc_id, edge, node_from, node_to;
```

### Results
```plaintext
+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
| bcc_id           | edge             | node_from        | node_to          |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 2})  | (:Node {id: 4})  |
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 3})  | (:Node {id: 4})  |
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 1})  | (:Node {id: 3})  |
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 2})  | (:Node {id: 3})  |
| 0                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 1})  | (:Node {id: 2})  |
| 1                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 8})  | (:Node {id: 9})  |
| 2                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 5})  | (:Node {id: 8})  |
| 2                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 7})  | (:Node {id: 8})  |
| 2                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 5})  | (:Node {id: 7})  |
| 3                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 0})  | (:Node {id: 6})  |
| 3                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 5})  | (:Node {id: 6})  |
| 3                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 1})  | (:Node {id: 5})  |
| 3                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 0})  | (:Node {id: 1})  |
| 4                | [:RELATION]      | (:Node {id: 10}) | (:Node {id: 11}) |
+------------------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
```
</Steps>
