pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection.mdx, before:

---
title: community_detection
description: Explore Memgraph's community detection capabilities and learn how to analyze the structure of complex networks. Access tutorials and comprehensive documentation to enhance your understanding of community detection.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# community_detection

Community in graphs mirrors real-world communities, like social circles. In a
graph, communities are sets of nodes. M. Girvan and M. E. J. Newman note that
nodes in a community connect more intensely with each other than with outside
nodes.

This module employs the [Louvain
method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louvain_method) for community detection
based on Blondel's paper [*Fast unfolding of communities in large
networks*](https://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0476) using the
[Grappolo](https://github.com/Exa-Graph/grappolo) parallel approach.

Louvain's algorithm is from the modularity maximization community detection
family. It starts with each node in its own community, then uses a greedy
approach to merge communities for the best modularity score. With an
$\mathcal{O}(n\log{}n)$ runtime for $n$ nodes, it suits large graphs. It's further enhanced
by parallelization via a distance-1 graph coloring and a coarsening technique
preserving communities.

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/community_detection_module/community_detection_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait                    | Value                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------ | --------------------- |
| **Module type**          | algorithm             |
| **Implementation**       | C++                   |
| **Graph direction**      | undirected            |
| **Relationship weights** | weighted / unweighted |
| **Parallelism**          | parallel              |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get()`

Computes graph communities using the Louvain method.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run. 
If subgraph is not specified, the algorithm is computed on the entire graph by default.

- `weight: string (default=null)` ➡ Specifies the name of the property containing the edge weight. Users can set their own weight property; 
if this property is not specified, the algorithm uses the `weight` edge attribute by default. If neither is set, each edge's weight defaults to `1`. 
To utilize a custom weight property, the user must set the `--storage-properties-on-edges=true` flag.
- `coloring: boolean (default=False)` ➡ If set, use the graph coloring heuristic for effective parallelization.
- `min_graph_shrink: integer (default=100000)` ➡ The graph coarsening optimization stops upon shrinking the graph to this many nodes.
- `community_alg_threshold: double (default=0.000001)` ➡ Controls how long the algorithm iterates. When the gain in modularity
  goes below the threshold, iteration is over.
  Valid values are between 0 and 1 (exclusive).
- `coloring_alg_threshold: double (default=0.01)` ➡ If coloring is enabled, controls how long the algorithm iterates. When the
  gain in modularity goes below this threshold, a final iteration is performed using the
  `community_alg_threshold` value.
  Valid values are between 0 and 1 (exclusive). This parameter's value should be higher than `community_alg_threshold`.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ A graph node for which the algorithm was performed and returned as part of the results.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not belong to any community.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to detect communities:

```cypher
CALL community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id;
```

### `get_subgraph()`

Computes graph communities over a subgraph using the Louvain method.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run. 
If subgraph is not specified, the algorithm is computed on the entire graph by default.

- `subgraph_nodes: List[Node]` ➡ List of nodes in the subgraph.
- `subgraph_relationships: List[Relationship]` ➡ List of relationships in the subgraph.
- `weight: string (default=null)` ➡ Specifies the name of the property containing the edge weight. Users can set their own weight property; 
if this property is not specified, the algorithm uses the `weight` edge attribute by default. If neither is set, each edge's weight defaults to `1`. 
To utilize a custom weight property, the user must set the `--storage-properties-on-edges=true` flag.
- `coloring: bool (default=False)` ➡ If set, use the graph coloring heuristic for effective parallelization.
- `min_graph_shrink: int  (default=100000)` ➡ The graph coarsening optimization stops upon shrinking the graph to this many nodes.
- `community_alg_threshold: double  (default=0.000001)` ➡ Controls how long the algorithm iterates. When the gain in modularity
  goes below the threshold, iteration is over.
  Valid values are between 0 and 1 (exclusive).
- `coloring_alg_threshold: double  (default=0.01)` ➡ If coloring is enabled, controls how long the algorithm iterates. When the
  gain in modularity goes below this threshold, a final iteration is performed using the
  `community_alg_threshold` value.
  Valid values are between 0 and 1 (exclusive). This parameter's value should be higher than `community_alg_threshold`.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ A graph node for which the algorithm was performed and returned as part of the results.
- `community_id: int` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not belong to any community.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to compute communities in a subgraph:

```cypher
MATCH (a)-[e]-(b)
WITH COLLECT(a) AS nodes, COLLECT (e) AS relationships
CALL community_detection.get_subgraph(nodes, relationships)
YIELD node, community_id;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection/community-detection-1.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
```

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Detect communities </h3>} 

Get communities using the following query:

```cypher
CALL community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id
ORDER BY node_id;
```

Results show which nodes belong to community 1, and which to community 2:

```plaintext
┌─────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────┐
│ node_id                 │ community_id            │
├─────────────────────────┼─────────────────────────┤
│ 0                       │ 1                       │
│ 1                       │ 1                       │
│ 2                       │ 1                       │
│ 3                       │ 2                       │
│ 4                       │ 2                       │
│ 5                       │ 2                       │
└─────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────┘
```

</Steps>

Commit message:

Fix weight argument in community detection

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection.mdx, after:

---
title: community_detection
description: Explore Memgraph's community detection capabilities and learn how to analyze the structure of complex networks. Access tutorials and comprehensive documentation to enhance your understanding of community detection.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# community_detection

Community in graphs mirrors real-world communities, like social circles. In a
graph, communities are sets of nodes. M. Girvan and M. E. J. Newman note that
nodes in a community connect more intensely with each other than with outside
nodes.

This module employs the [Louvain
method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louvain_method) for community detection
based on Blondel's paper [*Fast unfolding of communities in large
networks*](https://arxiv.org/abs/0803.0476) using the
[Grappolo](https://github.com/Exa-Graph/grappolo) parallel approach.

Louvain's algorithm is from the modularity maximization community detection
family. It starts with each node in its own community, then uses a greedy
approach to merge communities for the best modularity score. With an
$\mathcal{O}(n\log{}n)$ runtime for $n$ nodes, it suits large graphs. It's further enhanced
by parallelization via a distance-1 graph coloring and a coarsening technique
preserving communities.

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/community_detection_module/community_detection_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait                    | Value                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------ | --------------------- |
| **Module type**          | algorithm             |
| **Implementation**       | C++                   |
| **Graph direction**      | undirected            |
| **Relationship weights** | weighted / unweighted |
| **Parallelism**          | parallel              |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get()`

Computes graph communities using the Louvain method.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run. 
If subgraph is not specified, the algorithm is computed on the entire graph by default.

- `weight: string (default="weight")` ➡ Specifies the name of the edge property
containing the edge weight. If the user doesn't have a property to store weight
on edges in their graph, the algorithm will set all weights to `1`, leading to
the case of an **unweighted graph**. To utilize this algorithm for a **weighted
graph**, edges need to have a property storing their weights. To have properties
on edges, set `--storage-properties-on-edges` flag to `True` when starting
Memgraph. Users can either use the default property name `weight` or set another
custom property name. If they set a custom property name for weight on edges,
they need to provide that property name as a positional argument when calling
the procedure. 
- `coloring: boolean (default=False)` ➡ If set, use the graph coloring heuristic for effective parallelization.
- `min_graph_shrink: integer (default=100000)` ➡ The graph coarsening optimization stops upon shrinking the graph to this many nodes.
- `community_alg_threshold: double (default=0.000001)` ➡ Controls how long the algorithm iterates. When the gain in modularity
  goes below the threshold, iteration is over.
  Valid values are between 0 and 1 (exclusive).
- `coloring_alg_threshold: double (default=0.01)` ➡ If coloring is enabled, controls how long the algorithm iterates. When the
  gain in modularity goes below this threshold, a final iteration is performed using the
  `community_alg_threshold` value.
  Valid values are between 0 and 1 (exclusive). This parameter's value should be higher than `community_alg_threshold`.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ A graph node for which the algorithm was performed and returned as part of the results.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not belong to any community.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to detect communities:

```cypher
CALL community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id;
```

### `get_subgraph()`

Computes graph communities over a subgraph using the Louvain method.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run. 
If subgraph is not specified, the algorithm is computed on the entire graph by default.

- `subgraph_nodes: List[Node]` ➡ List of nodes in the subgraph.
- `subgraph_relationships: List[Relationship]` ➡ List of relationships in the subgraph.
- `weight: string (default=null)` ➡ Specifies the name of the property containing the edge weight. Users can set their own weight property; 
if this property is not specified, the algorithm uses the `weight` edge attribute by default. If neither is set, each edge's weight defaults to `1`. 
To utilize a custom weight property, the user must set the `--storage-properties-on-edges=true` flag.
- `coloring: bool (default=False)` ➡ If set, use the graph coloring heuristic for effective parallelization.
- `min_graph_shrink: int  (default=100000)` ➡ The graph coarsening optimization stops upon shrinking the graph to this many nodes.
- `community_alg_threshold: double  (default=0.000001)` ➡ Controls how long the algorithm iterates. When the gain in modularity
  goes below the threshold, iteration is over.
  Valid values are between 0 and 1 (exclusive).
- `coloring_alg_threshold: double  (default=0.01)` ➡ If coloring is enabled, controls how long the algorithm iterates. When the
  gain in modularity goes below this threshold, a final iteration is performed using the
  `community_alg_threshold` value.
  Valid values are between 0 and 1 (exclusive). This parameter's value should be higher than `community_alg_threshold`.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ A graph node for which the algorithm was performed and returned as part of the results.
- `community_id: int` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not belong to any community.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to compute communities in a subgraph:

```cypher
MATCH (a)-[e]-(b)
WITH COLLECT(a) AS nodes, COLLECT (e) AS relationships
CALL community_detection.get_subgraph(nodes, relationships)
YIELD node, community_id;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection/community-detection-1.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
```

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Detect communities </h3>} 

Get communities using the following query:

```cypher
CALL community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id
ORDER BY node_id;
```

Results show which nodes belong to community 1, and which to community 2:

```plaintext
┌─────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────┐
│ node_id                 │ community_id            │
├─────────────────────────┼─────────────────────────┤
│ 0                       │ 1                       │
│ 1                       │ 1                       │
│ 2                       │ 1                       │
│ 3                       │ 2                       │
│ 4                       │ 2                       │
│ 5                       │ 2                       │
└─────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────┘
```

</Steps>
