pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection_online.mdx, before:

---
title: community_detection_online
description: Learn how to perform online community detection using Memgraph. Explore tutorials and comprehensive documentation on detecting and analyzing communities in real-time with Memgraph's graph computing solution.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# community_detection_online

Community in graphs mirrors real-world communities, like social circles. In a
graph, communities are sets of nodes. M. Girvan and M. E. J. Newman note that
nodes in a community connect more intensely with each other than with outside
nodes.

The query module uses the [LabelRankT dynamic community detection
algorithm](https://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2006). 

LabelRankT is a *label propagation* algorithm where nodes determine their
communities by learning from neighbors. Efficiently designed for large-scale
graphs, it operates in $\mathcal{O}(m)$ time with $\mathcal{O}(mn)$ space
complexity, where $m$ and $n$ represent the counts of vertices and edges,
respectively.

This dynamic method is ideal for graph streaming platforms like Memgraph. It
processes only those sections of the graph affected by updates, thus optimizing
efforts. The algorithm is deterministic, ensuring consistent results. By taking
into account edge weight and directedness, it provides superior community
detection and can be applied to a diverse range of graphs.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/community_detection_module/community_detection_online_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value                 |
| ------------------- | --------------------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm             |
| **Implementation**  | C++                   |
| **Graph direction** | directed / undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted / unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential            |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `set()`

Performs dynamic community detection using the LabelRankT algorithm.

The default values of the `similarity_threshold`, `exponent` and `min_value`
parameters are not universally applicable, and the actual values should be
determined experimentally. This is especially pertinent to setting the
`min_value` parameter. For example, with the default $1/10$ value, vertices
of degree greater than 10 are at risk of not being assigned to any community and
the user should check if that is indeed the case.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `directed: boolean (default=False)` ➡ Specifies whether the graph is directed. If not set,
  the graph is treated as undirected.
- `weighted: boolean (default=False)` ➡ Specifies whether the graph is weighted. If not set,
  the graph is considered unweighted.
- `similarity_threshold: double (default=0.7)` ➡ Maximum similarity between node’s and
   its neighbors’ communities for the node to be updated in the ongoing
   iteration.
- `exponent: double (default=4)` ➡ Power which community probability nodes are raised
  elementwise to.
- `min_value: double (default=0.1)` ➡ Smallest community probability that is not pruned
  between iterations.
- `weight_property: string (default="weight")` ➡ For directed graphs, the values at the given
   relationship property are used as weights in the community detection algorithm.
- `w_selfloop: double (default=1)` ➡ Each node has a self-loop added to smooth the
   label propagation. This parameter specifies the weight assigned to the
   self-loops. If the graph is unweighted, this value is ignored.
- `max_iterations: integer (default=100)` ➡ Maximum number of iterations to run.
- `max_updates: integer (default=5)` ➡ Maximum number of updates to any node’s community
  probabilities.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. If the node is not associated with any
  community, defaults to $-1$.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
CALL community_detection_online.set(False, False, 0.7, 4.0, 0.1, "weight", 1, 100, 5)
YIELD node, community_id;
```

### `get()`

Returns the latest previously calculated community detection results. If there
are none, defaults to calling `set()` with default parameters.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not belong to any community.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
CALL community_detection_online.get()
YIELD node, community_id;
```

### `update()`

Dynamically updates previously calculated community detection results based on
changes applied in the latest graph update and returns the results.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `createdVertices: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ Nodes created in the latest graph
  update.
- `createdEdges: mgp.List[mgp.Edge]` ➡ Relationships created in the latest graph update.
- `updatedVertices: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ Nodes updated in the latest graph
  update.
- `updatedEdges: mgp.List[mgp.Edge]` ➡ Relationships updated in the latest graph update.
- `deletedVertices: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ Nodes deleted in the latest graph
  update.
- `deletedEdges: mgp.List[mgp.Edge]` ➡ Relationships deleted in the latest graph update.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. If the node is not associated with any
  community, defaults to $-1$.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

As there are a total of six complex obligatory parameters, setting the
parameters by hand might be cumbersome. The recommended use of this method is to
call it within a [trigger](/fundamentals/triggers), making sure beforehand that
all [predefined variables](/fundamentals/triggers#predefined-variables) are
available:

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER sample_trigger BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL community_detection_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, updatedVertices, updatedEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) YIELD node, community_id;
```

Communities calculated by `update()` are also accessible by subsequently calling
`get()`:

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER sample_trigger BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL community_detection_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, updatedVertices, updatedEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) YIELD *;

CALL community_detection_online.get()
YIELD node, community_id
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id
ORDER BY node_id;
```

### `reset()`

Resets the algorithm to its initial state.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `message: string` ➡ Reports whether the algorithm was successfully reset.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
CALL community_detection_online.reset() YIELD message;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Create a trigger </h3>} 

The following query sets a trigger which will update the values upon creating new data or deleting existing data: 

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER community_detection_online_trigger BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL community_detection_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, updatedVertices, updatedEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) YIELD node, community_id
SET node.community_id = community_id;
```

{<h3> Add new data </h3>} 

New data is added to the database: 

```cypher
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
```

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection_online/community-detection-online-1.png)

As new data is added, the triggered `community_detection_online.update()` procedure calculates the values. 

{<h3> Detect communities </h3>} 

Return the values using the following query:

```cypher
CALL community_detection_online.get()
YIELD node, community_id
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id
ORDER BY node_id;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| node_id                 | community_id            |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 0                       | 1                       |
| 1                       | 1                       |
| 2                       | 1                       |
| 3                       | 2                       |
| 4                       | 2                       |
| 5                       | 2                       |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
```
</Steps>

Commit message:

[main<] QM updates (#301)
* gnn

* node

* kmeans-nodeclass

* tgn

* qm

* llm

* qm

* node2vec

* node2vec

* online

* omfg

* node2vec-error

* node2vec+yield

* node2vec

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection_online.mdx, after:

---
title: community_detection_online
description: Learn how to perform online community detection using Memgraph. Explore tutorials and comprehensive documentation on detecting and analyzing communities in real-time with Memgraph's graph computing solution.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# community_detection_online

Community in graphs mirrors real-world communities, like social circles. In a
graph, communities are sets of nodes. M. Girvan and M. E. J. Newman note that
nodes in a community connect more intensely with each other than with outside
nodes.

The query module uses the [LabelRankT dynamic community detection
algorithm](https://arxiv.org/abs/1305.2006). 

LabelRankT is a *label propagation* algorithm where nodes determine their
communities by learning from neighbors. Efficiently designed for large-scale
graphs, it operates in $\mathcal{O}(m)$ time with $\mathcal{O}(mn)$ space
complexity, where $m$ and $n$ represent the counts of vertices and edges,
respectively.

This dynamic method is ideal for graph streaming platforms like Memgraph. It
processes only those sections of the graph affected by updates, thus optimizing
efforts. The algorithm is deterministic, ensuring consistent results. By taking
into account edge weight and directedness, it provides superior community
detection and can be applied to a diverse range of graphs.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/community_detection_module/community_detection_online_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value                 |
| ------------------- | --------------------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm             |
| **Implementation**  | C++                   |
| **Graph direction** | directed / undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted / unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential            |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `set()`

Performs dynamic community detection using the LabelRankT algorithm.

The default values of the `similarity_threshold`, `exponent` and `min_value`
parameters are not universally applicable, and the actual values should be
determined experimentally. This is especially pertinent to setting the
`min_value` parameter. For example, with the default $1/10$ value, vertices
of degree greater than 10 are at risk of not being assigned to any community and
the user should check if that is indeed the case.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `directed: boolean (default=False)` ➡ Specifies whether the graph is directed. If not set,
  the graph is treated as undirected.
- `weighted: boolean (default=False)` ➡ Specifies whether the graph is weighted. If not set,
  the graph is considered unweighted.
- `similarity_threshold: double (default=0.7)` ➡ Maximum similarity between node’s and
   its neighbors’ communities for the node to be updated in the ongoing
   iteration.
- `exponent: double (default=4)` ➡ Power which community probability nodes are raised
  elementwise to.
- `min_value: double (default=0.1)` ➡ Smallest community probability that is not pruned
  between iterations.
- `weight_property: string (default="weight")` ➡ For directed graphs, the values at the given
   relationship property are used as weights in the community detection algorithm.
- `w_selfloop: double (default=1)` ➡ Each node has a self-loop added to smooth the
   label propagation. This parameter specifies the weight assigned to the
   self-loops. If the graph is unweighted, this value is ignored.
- `max_iterations: integer (default=100)` ➡ Maximum number of iterations to run.
- `max_updates: integer (default=5)` ➡ Maximum number of updates to any node’s community
  probabilities.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. If the node is not associated with any
  community, defaults to $-1$.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To run community detection, use the following query: 

```cypher
CALL community_detection_online.set(False, False, 0.7, 4.0, 0.1, "weight", 1, 100, 5)
YIELD node, community_id;
```

### `get()`

Returns the latest previously calculated community detection results. If there
are none, defaults to calling `set()` with default parameters.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not belong to any community.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query, to get the calculated community detection results

```cypher
CALL community_detection_online.get()
YIELD node, community_id;
```

### `update()`

Dynamically updates previously calculated community detection results based on
changes applied in the latest graph update and returns the results.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `createdVertices: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ Nodes created in the latest graph
  update.
- `createdEdges: mgp.List[mgp.Edge]` ➡ Relationships created in the latest graph update.
- `updatedVertices: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ Nodes updated in the latest graph
  update.
- `updatedEdges: mgp.List[mgp.Edge]` ➡ Relationships updated in the latest graph update.
- `deletedVertices: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ Nodes deleted in the latest graph
  update.
- `deletedEdges: mgp.List[mgp.Edge]` ➡ Relationships deleted in the latest graph update.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. If the node is not associated with any
  community, defaults to $-1$.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

As there are a total of six complex obligatory parameters, setting the
parameters by hand might be cumbersome. The recommended use of this method is to
call it within a [trigger](/fundamentals/triggers), making sure beforehand that
all [predefined variables](/fundamentals/triggers#predefined-variables) are
available:

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER sample_trigger BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL community_detection_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, updatedVertices, updatedEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) YIELD node, community_id;
```

Communities calculated by `update()` are also accessible by subsequently calling
`get()`:

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER sample_trigger BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL community_detection_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, updatedVertices, updatedEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) 
YIELD node, community_id
RETURN node, community_id;

CALL community_detection_online.get()
YIELD node, community_id
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id
ORDER BY node_id;
```

### `reset()`

Resets the algorithm to its initial state.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `message: string` ➡ Reports whether the algorithm was successfully reset.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query, to reset the algorithm to its inital state:

```cypher
CALL community_detection_online.reset()
YIELD message;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Create a trigger </h3>} 

The following query sets a trigger which will update the values upon creating new data or deleting existing data: 

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER community_detection_online_trigger BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL community_detection_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, updatedVertices, updatedEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) YIELD node, community_id
SET node.community_id = community_id;
```

{<h3> Add new data </h3>} 

New data is added to the database: 

```cypher
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
```

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection_online/community-detection-online-1.png)

As new data is added, the triggered `community_detection_online.update()` procedure calculates the values. 

{<h3> Detect communities </h3>} 

Return the values using the following query:

```cypher
CALL community_detection_online.get()
YIELD node, community_id
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id
ORDER BY node_id;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| node_id                 | community_id            |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 0                       | 1                       |
| 1                       | 1                       |
| 2                       | 1                       |
| 3                       | 2                       |
| 4                       | 2                       |
| 5                       | 2                       |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
```
</Steps>
