pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/convert.mdx, before:

---
title: convert
description: Learn how to convert data types using procedures from the MAGE library.  
---

# convert

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

Module used for conversion of one data type to another.

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-convert-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/convert.py)


| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**util**</Highlight>  |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**Python**</Highlight>     |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight> |

## Procedures

### `str2object(string)`

Inline procedure that converts the input string to a object the string represents, using Python's `json.dumps` function.

#### Input:

- `string: string` ➡ input string that is converted.

#### Output:

- `mgp.Any` ➡ since the function is inline, the output is not named, and can be of various data types, depending of the content of the string.

#### Usage:

In this case, the string will be converted to a list:
```cypher
RETURN convert.str2object("[1,2,3]") AS result;
```

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| result                     |
+----------------------------+
| [1, 2, 3]                  |
+----------------------------+
```

In this use case, the string will be converted into a map, containing a list:


```cypher
RETURN convert.str2object('{"key": [1,2,3]}') AS result;
```

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| result                     |
+----------------------------+
| {"key": [1,2,3]}           |
+----------------------------+
```

Commit message:

[main<] Advanced alghos - batch1 (#194)
* remove-highlight

* icon (#197)

* changes

* collections

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/convert.mdx, after:

---
title: convert
description: Learn how to convert data types using procedures from the MAGE library.  
---

# convert

import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

Module used for conversion of one data type to another.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/convert.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value      |
| ------------------- | ---------- |
| **Module type**     | util       |
| **Implementation**  | Python     |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential |

## Function

### `str2object()`

Inline function that converts the input string to an object the string
represents, using Python's `json.dumps` function.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `string: string` ➡ The input string that will be converted.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `mgp.Any` ➡ Since the function is inline, the output is not named, and can be of various data types, depending of the content of the string.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

In this case, the string will be converted to a list:

```cypher
RETURN convert.str2object("[1,2,3]") AS result;
```

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| result                     |
+----------------------------+
| [1, 2, 3]                  |
+----------------------------+
```

In this use case, the string will be converted into a map, containing a list:

```cypher
RETURN convert.str2object('{"key": [1,2,3]}') AS result;
```

```plaintext
+----------------------------+
| result                     |
+----------------------------+
| {"key": [1,2,3]}           |
+----------------------------+
```
