pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/date.mdx, before:

---
title: date
description: Discover how to effectively perform date-based operations in your graph data with Memgraph's Date class. Also, check out our documentation to learn how to manipulate and better contextualize dates in your data.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# date

The `date` module provides various utilities to handle date and time operations
within the Cypher Query Language. These functions can be used in conjunction
with other Cypher expressions to handle date-related tasks such as formatting,
parsing, comparisons, and arithmetic, thus enhancing the capabilities of
Memgraph for managing time-based data.

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/tree/main/python/date.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | util                |
| **Implementation**  | C++                 |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted/unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential          |

## Procedures

### `format()`

Returns a string representation of time value using the specified unit,
specified format, and specified timezone.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `time: int` ➡ Time passed since the Unix epoch.
- `unit: string (default="ms")` ➡ The unit of the given time.
- `format: string (default="%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S %Z")` ➡ The pattern to be formatted to.
- `timezone: string (default="UTC")` ➡ The timezone to be used.

The `unit` parameter supports the following values:
- "ms" for milliseconds
- "s" for seconds
- "m" for minutes
- "h" for hours
- "d" for days

The `format` parameter supports values defined under [Python strftime format
codes](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes).

The `timezone` parameter can be specified with the database TZ identifier (text)
name, as listed for
[timezones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones).

<Callout type="warning">

Starting with `tzdata` version `2024b`, its format has changed and an
incompatibility with the current libstdc++ has been introduced. As a result,
using `tzdata` version `2024b` or later will break the timezone feature in
Memgraph. This could lead to incorrect handling of timezones and unexpected
behavior in your application. To avoid compatibility issues, please ensure that
you are using `tzdata` `v2024a` or earlier with Memgraph until libstdc++ has
been updated to support the new format in tzdata.

</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `formatted: string` ➡ The received time in the specified format.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to get a string representation from a time value:

```cypher
CALL date.format(74976, "h", "%Y/%m/%d %H:%M:%S %Z", "Mexico/BajaNorte")
YIELD formatted RETURN formatted;
```

```plaintext
+-------------------------------+
| formatted                     |
+-------------------------------+
| "1978/07/21 17:00:00 PDT"     |
+-------------------------------+
```

### `parse()`

Parses the date string using the specified format and specified timezone into
the specified time unit.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `time: string` ➡ A datetime.
- `unit: string (default="ms")` ➡ The unit to be parsed to.
- `format: string (default="%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S")` ➡ The format of the given DateTime.
- `timezone: string (default="UTC")` ➡ The timezone to be used.

The `unit` parameter supports the following values:
- "ms" for milliseconds
- "s" for seconds
- "m" for minutes
- "h" for hours
- "d" for days

The `format` parameter supports values defined under [Python strftime format
codes](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes).

The `timezone` parameter can be specified with the database TZ identifier (text)
name, as listed for
[timezones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones).

<Callout type="warning">

Starting with `tzdata` version `2024b`, its format has changed and an
incompatibility with the current libstdc++ has been introduced. As a result,
using `tzdata` version `2024b` or later will break the timezone feature in
Memgraph. This could lead to incorrect handling of timezones and unexpected
behavior in your application. To avoid compatibility issues, please ensure that
you are using `tzdata` `v2024a` or earlier with Memgraph until libstdc++ has
been updated to support the new format in tzdata.

</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `parsed: int` ➡ The number of time units that have elapsed since the Unix epoch.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to parse the date string:

```cypher
CALL date.parse("2023/08/03 14:30:00", "h", "%Y/%m/%d %H:%M:%S", "Europe/Zagreb")
YIELD parsed RETURN parsed;
```

```plaintext
+---------------------+
| parsed              |
+---------------------+
| 469740              |
+---------------------+
```

## Functions

### `add()`

Adds two numeric values representing quantities of time in specific units.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `time: int` ➡ The first term in the addition operation.
- `unit: string` ➡ The time unit of the above value.
- `add_value: int` ➡ The second term in the addition operation.
- `add_unit: string` ➡ The time unit of the above value.

The `unit` parameter supports the following values:
- "ms", "milli", "millis" and "milliseconds" for milliseconds
- "s", "second" and "seconds" for seconds
- "m", "minute" and "minutes" for minutes
- "h", "hour" and "hours" for hours
- "d", "day" and "days" for days

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

The output of this function is an `int` value representing the total time
expressed in the time unit of the first parameter.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
RETURN date.add(100, "day", 24, "h") AS sum;
```

```plaintext
+---------------------+
| sum                 |
+---------------------+
| 101                 |
+---------------------+
```

### `convert_format()`

Converts a string of one date format into a string of another date format.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `temporal: string` ➡ The date to be converted.
- `currentFormat: string` ➡ The format of the input `temporal` string date.
- `convertTo: string` ➡ The required output date string format.

`conert_format` supports the following formats for both `currentFormat` and
`convertTo`:

- `basic_iso_date` - `YYYYMMDD` (e.g., `20111203`)
- `iso_local_date` - `YYYY-MM-DD` (e.g., `2011-12-03`)
- `iso_offset_date` - `YYYY-MM-DD±hh:mm` (e.g., `2011-12-03+01:00`)
- `iso_date` - `YYYY-MM-DD` or `YYYY-MM-DD±hh:mm` (e.g., `2011-12-03+01:00`)
- `iso_local_time` - `HH:MM:SS` (e.g., `10:15:30`)
- `iso_offset_time` - `HH:MM:SS±hh:mm` (e.g., `10:15:30+01:00`)
- `iso_time` - `HH:MM:SS` or `HH:MM:SS±hh:mm` (e.g, `10:15:30+01:00`)
- `iso_local_date_time` - `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS` (e.g., `2011-12-03T10:15:30`)
- `iso_offset_date_time` - `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS±hh:mm` (e.g., `2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00`)
- `iso_zoned_date_time` - `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS±hh:mm[ZoneName]` (e.g., `2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00[Europe/Paris]`)
- `iso_date_time` - `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS±hh:mm[ZoneName]` (e.g, `2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00[Europe/Paris]`)

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

The output of this function is an `string` value representing the `temporal` input
expressed in the required `convertTo` format.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
RETURN date.convert_format('2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00[Europe/Paris]', 'iso_zoned_date_time', 'iso_offset_date_time') AS dt;
```

```plaintext
+-----------------------------+
| dt                          |
+-----------------------------+
| "2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00" |
+-----------------------------+
```

Commit message:

doc: Tidy `date` docs
- Clarify the behaviour of `convert_format`
- Correct the underlying language of the module: Python, not C++.

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/date.mdx, after:

---
title: date
description: Discover how to effectively perform date-based operations in your graph data with Memgraph's Date class. Also, check out our documentation to learn how to manipulate and better contextualize dates in your data.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# date

The `date` module provides various utilities to handle date and time operations
within the Cypher Query Language. These functions can be used in conjunction
with other Cypher expressions to handle date-related tasks such as formatting,
parsing, comparisons, and arithmetic, thus enhancing the capabilities of
Memgraph for managing time-based data.

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/tree/main/python/date.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | util                |
| **Implementation**  | Python              |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential          |

## Procedures

### `format()`

Returns a string representation of time value using the specified unit,
specified format, and specified timezone.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `time: int` ➡ Time passed since the Unix epoch.
- `unit: string (default="ms")` ➡ The unit of the given time.
- `format: string (default="%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S %Z")` ➡ The pattern to be formatted to.
- `timezone: string (default="UTC")` ➡ The timezone to be used.

The `unit` parameter supports the following values:
- "ms" for milliseconds
- "s" for seconds
- "m" for minutes
- "h" for hours
- "d" for days

The `format` parameter supports values defined under [Python strftime format
codes](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes).

The `timezone` parameter can be specified with the database TZ identifier (text)
name, as listed for
[timezones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones).

<Callout type="warning">

Starting with `tzdata` version `2024b`, its format has changed and an
incompatibility with the current libstdc++ has been introduced. As a result,
using `tzdata` version `2024b` or later will break the timezone feature in
Memgraph. This could lead to incorrect handling of timezones and unexpected
behavior in your application. To avoid compatibility issues, please ensure that
you are using `tzdata` `v2024a` or earlier with Memgraph until libstdc++ has
been updated to support the new format in tzdata.

</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `formatted: string` ➡ The received time in the specified format.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to get a string representation from a time value:

```cypher
CALL date.format(74976, "h", "%Y/%m/%d %H:%M:%S %Z", "Mexico/BajaNorte")
YIELD formatted RETURN formatted;
```

```plaintext
+-------------------------------+
| formatted                     |
+-------------------------------+
| "1978/07/21 17:00:00 PDT"     |
+-------------------------------+
```

### `parse()`

Parses the date string using the specified format and specified timezone into
the specified time unit.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `time: string` ➡ A datetime.
- `unit: string (default="ms")` ➡ The unit to be parsed to.
- `format: string (default="%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S")` ➡ The format of the given DateTime.
- `timezone: string (default="UTC")` ➡ The timezone to be used.

The `unit` parameter supports the following values:
- "ms" for milliseconds
- "s" for seconds
- "m" for minutes
- "h" for hours
- "d" for days

The `format` parameter supports values defined under [Python strftime format
codes](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes).

The `timezone` parameter can be specified with the database TZ identifier (text)
name, as listed for
[timezones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones).

<Callout type="warning">

Starting with `tzdata` version `2024b`, its format has changed and an
incompatibility with the current libstdc++ has been introduced. As a result,
using `tzdata` version `2024b` or later will break the timezone feature in
Memgraph. This could lead to incorrect handling of timezones and unexpected
behavior in your application. To avoid compatibility issues, please ensure that
you are using `tzdata` `v2024a` or earlier with Memgraph until libstdc++ has
been updated to support the new format in tzdata.

</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `parsed: int` ➡ The number of time units that have elapsed since the Unix epoch.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to parse the date string:

```cypher
CALL date.parse("2023/08/03 14:30:00", "h", "%Y/%m/%d %H:%M:%S", "Europe/Zagreb")
YIELD parsed RETURN parsed;
```

```plaintext
+---------------------+
| parsed              |
+---------------------+
| 469740              |
+---------------------+
```

## Functions

### `add()`

Adds two numeric values representing quantities of time in specific units.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `time: int` ➡ The first term in the addition operation.
- `unit: string` ➡ The time unit of the above value.
- `add_value: int` ➡ The second term in the addition operation.
- `add_unit: string` ➡ The time unit of the above value.

The `unit` parameter supports the following values:
- "ms", "milli", "millis" and "milliseconds" for milliseconds
- "s", "second" and "seconds" for seconds
- "m", "minute" and "minutes" for minutes
- "h", "hour" and "hours" for hours
- "d", "day" and "days" for days

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

The output of this function is an `int` value representing the total time
expressed in the time unit of the first parameter.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
RETURN date.add(100, "day", 24, "h") AS sum;
```

```plaintext
+---------------------+
| sum                 |
+---------------------+
| 101                 |
+---------------------+
```

### `convert_format()`

Converts a string containing a date or time in one specified format into a
string of another specified date or time format.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `temporal: string` ➡ The date to be converted.
- `currentFormat: string` ➡ The format of the input `temporal` string date.
- `convertTo: string` ➡ The required output date string format.

`conert_format` supports the following formats for both `currentFormat` and
`convertTo`:

- `basic_iso_date` - `YYYYMMDD` (e.g., `20111203`)
- `iso_local_date` - `YYYY-MM-DD` (e.g., `2011-12-03`)
- `iso_offset_date` - `YYYY-MM-DD±hh:mm` (e.g., `2011-12-03+01:00`)
- `iso_date` - `YYYY-MM-DD` or `YYYY-MM-DD±hh:mm` (e.g., `2011-12-03+01:00`)
- `iso_local_time` - `HH:MM:SS` (e.g., `10:15:30`)
- `iso_offset_time` - `HH:MM:SS±hh:mm` (e.g., `10:15:30+01:00`)
- `iso_time` - `HH:MM:SS` or `HH:MM:SS±hh:mm` (e.g, `10:15:30+01:00`)
- `iso_local_date_time` - `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS` (e.g., `2011-12-03T10:15:30`)
- `iso_offset_date_time` - `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS±hh:mm` (e.g., `2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00`)
- `iso_zoned_date_time` - `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS±hh:mm[ZoneName]` (e.g., `2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00[Europe/Paris]`)
- `iso_date_time` - `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS±hh:mm[ZoneName]` (e.g, `2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00[Europe/Paris]`)

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

The output of this function is a `string` value representing the `temporal` input
expressed in the required `convertTo` format.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
RETURN date.convert_format('2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00[Europe/Paris]', 'iso_zoned_date_time', 'iso_offset_date_time') AS dt;
```

```plaintext
+-----------------------------+
| dt                          |
+-----------------------------+
| "2011-12-03T10:15:30+01:00" |
+-----------------------------+
```
