pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/graph_analyzer.mdx, before:

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# graph_analyzer

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

The first thing someone should focus on when working with graphs is getting deep analytics of the current state. That is what this module is doing. By using the power of NetworkX, various different graph properties are extracted. This module has the ability to run on a subgraph if a subgraph of nodes is provided as input. 

The list of analytics that the module uses:

* **nodes**: Number of nodes
* **edges**: Number of edges
* **bridges**: Number of bridges
* **articulation_points**: Number of articulation points
* **avg_degree**: Average degree
* **sorted_nodes_degree**: Sorted nodes degree
* **self_loops**: Self loops
* **is_bipartite**: Is bipartite
* **is_plannar**: Is planar
* **is_biconnected**: Is biconnected
* **is_weakly_connected**: Is weakly connected
* **number_of_weakly_components**: Number of weakly connected components
* **is_strongly_connected**: Is strongly connected
* **strongly_components**: Number of strongly connected components
* **is_dag**: Is directed acyclic graph (DAG)
* **is_eulerian**: Is eulerian
* **is_forest**: Is forest
* **is_tree**: Is tree
  
[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-graph_analyzer-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/graph_analyzer.py)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**module**</Highlight>     |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**Python**</Highlight>     |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**undirected**</Highlight> |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight> |

## Procedures

### `analyze(analyses)`

#### Input:

* `analyses: List[string] (default=NULL)` ➡ List of analytics names to be fetched. If provided with NULL, the whole set of analytics will be included.

#### Output:

* `name: string` ➡ The name of the analytics
* `value: string` ➡ Analytics value, stored as a string

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL graph_analyzer.analyze() YIELD *;
```

### `analyze_subgraph(vertices, edges, analyses)`

#### Input:

* `vertices: List[Vertex]` ➡ Subset of vertices within a graph.
* `edges: List[Edge]` ➡ Subset of edges in a graph for which analytics will take place.
* `analyses: List[string] (default=NULL)` ➡ List of analytics names to be fetched. If provided with NULL, the whole set of analytics will be included.

#### Output:

* `name: string` ➡ The name of the analytics
* `value: string` ➡ Analytics value, stored as a string

#### Usage:
```cypher
MATCH (n)-[e]-(m)
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes_subset, COLLECT(e) AS edges_subset
CALL graph_analyzer.analyze(nodes_subset, edges_subset) YIELD name, value
RETURN name, value;
```

## Example

<Steps>
### Input graph

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/graph_analyzer/graph-analyzer-1.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 7}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 11}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
CALL graph_analyzer.analyze([
    "nodes", "edges", "bridges", "articulation_points",
    "avg_degree", "is_dag", "is_tree", "strongly_components"
    ])
YIELD *
RETURN *;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| name                                      | value                                     |
+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| "Number of nodes"                         | "12"                                      |
| "Number of edges"                         | "14"                                      |
| "Number of bridges"                       | "2"                                       |
| "Number of articulation points"           | "3"                                       |
| "Average degree"                          | "1.1666666666666667"                      |
| "Is DAG"                                  | "True"                                    |
| "Is tree"                                 | "False"                                   |
| "Number of strongly connected components" | "12"                                      |
+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
```
</Steps>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/graph_analyzer.mdx, after:

---
title: graph_analyzer
description: Explore the graph_analyzer tool in Memgraph for deep graph analysis. Enhance your understanding of graph analysis techniques with tutorials and our documentation.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# graph_analyzer

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

The first thing someone should focus on when working with graphs is getting deep analytics of the current state. That is what this module is doing. By using the power of NetworkX, various different graph properties are extracted. This module has the ability to run on a subgraph if a subgraph of nodes is provided as input. 

The list of analytics that the module uses:

* **nodes**: Number of nodes
* **edges**: Number of edges
* **bridges**: Number of bridges
* **articulation_points**: Number of articulation points
* **avg_degree**: Average degree
* **sorted_nodes_degree**: Sorted nodes degree
* **self_loops**: Self loops
* **is_bipartite**: Is bipartite
* **is_plannar**: Is planar
* **is_biconnected**: Is biconnected
* **is_weakly_connected**: Is weakly connected
* **number_of_weakly_components**: Number of weakly connected components
* **is_strongly_connected**: Is strongly connected
* **strongly_components**: Number of strongly connected components
* **is_dag**: Is directed acyclic graph (DAG)
* **is_eulerian**: Is eulerian
* **is_forest**: Is forest
* **is_tree**: Is tree
  
[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-graph_analyzer-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/graph_analyzer.py)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**module**</Highlight>     |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**Python**</Highlight>     |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**undirected**</Highlight> |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight> |

## Procedures

### `analyze(analyses)`

#### Input:

* `analyses: List[string] (default=NULL)` ➡ List of analytics names to be fetched. If provided with NULL, the whole set of analytics will be included.

#### Output:

* `name: string` ➡ The name of the analytics
* `value: string` ➡ Analytics value, stored as a string

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL graph_analyzer.analyze() YIELD *;
```

### `analyze_subgraph(vertices, edges, analyses)`

#### Input:

* `vertices: List[Vertex]` ➡ Subset of vertices within a graph.
* `edges: List[Edge]` ➡ Subset of edges in a graph for which analytics will take place.
* `analyses: List[string] (default=NULL)` ➡ List of analytics names to be fetched. If provided with NULL, the whole set of analytics will be included.

#### Output:

* `name: string` ➡ The name of the analytics
* `value: string` ➡ Analytics value, stored as a string

#### Usage:
```cypher
MATCH (n)-[e]-(m)
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes_subset, COLLECT(e) AS edges_subset
CALL graph_analyzer.analyze(nodes_subset, edges_subset) YIELD name, value
RETURN name, value;
```

## Example

<Steps>
### Input graph

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/graph_analyzer/graph-analyzer-1.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 7}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 11}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
CALL graph_analyzer.analyze([
    "nodes", "edges", "bridges", "articulation_points",
    "avg_degree", "is_dag", "is_tree", "strongly_components"
    ])
YIELD *
RETURN *;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| name                                      | value                                     |
+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| "Number of nodes"                         | "12"                                      |
| "Number of edges"                         | "14"                                      |
| "Number of bridges"                       | "2"                                       |
| "Number of articulation points"           | "3"                                       |
| "Average degree"                          | "1.1666666666666667"                      |
| "Is DAG"                                  | "True"                                    |
| "Is tree"                                 | "False"                                   |
| "Number of strongly connected components" | "12"                                      |
+-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
```
</Steps>
