pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality_online.mdx, before:

---
title: katz_centrality_online
description: Optimize your graph analysis by computing Katz centrality online with Memgraph. Explore tutorials and comprehensive documentation to learn how to efficiently analyze node influence and importance using real-time Katz centrality calculations.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# katz_centrality_online

Because of its simplicity, **Katz Centrality** has become one of the most
established centrality measurements. The definition of Katz centrality is that
it presents the amount of influence by summing all walks starting from the node
of interest and weighting walks by some attenuation factor smaller than 1.

Just as the other centrality measures got their dynamic algorithm
implementations, so did **Katz Centrality**. The implementation results in a
reduction of computations needed to update already calculated results. The
algorithm offers substantially large speedups compared to static algorithm runs.

The algorithm is based on the work of Alexander van der Grinten et. al. called
[Scalable Katz Ranking Computation in Large Static and Dynamic
Graphs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.03847.pdf). The author proposes an
estimation method that computes Katz's centrality by iteratively improving upper
and lower bounds on the centrality scores. The computed scores may differ from
the real values, but the algorithm has the guarantee of preserving the rankings.

Online Katz centrality should be used in a specific way. To set the parameters,
use the `set()` procedure, which will also set the context of the streaming
algorithm. The `get()` procedure returns the resulting values stored in a cache.
Therefore, if you try to get values before first calling `set()`, the run will
fail with a proper message.

To make the incremental flow, you should set the proper trigger using the
`update()` function:

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER katz_trigger
(BEFORE | AFTER) COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL katz_centrality_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) YIELD *
SET node.rank = rank;
```

Finally, the `reset()` function resets the context and enables new runs.


<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/katz_centrality_module/katz_centrality_online_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value      |
| ------------------- | ---------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm  |
| **Implementation**  | C++        |
| **Graph direction** | directed   |
| **Edge weights**    | unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `set()`

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `alpha: double (default=0.2)` ➡ Exponential decay factor defining the walk length
  importance.
- `epsilon: double (default=1e-2)` ➡ Convergence tolerance. Minimal difference in two
  adjacent pairs of nodes in the final ranking.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which Katz Centrality is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the centrality value after
  bound convergence.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality_online.set(0.2, 0.01)
YIELD node, rank;
```

### `get()`

The `get()` procedure should be used once the trigger has been set or the`set()`
procedure has been called before adding changes to the graph.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which Katz Centrality is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the centrality value after
  bound convergence.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality_online.get()
YIELD node, rank;
```

### `update()`

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `created_vertices` ➡ Vertices (nodes) that were created in the last transaction.
- `created_edges` ➡ Edges (relationships) created in a period from the last transaction.
- `deleted_vertices` ➡ Vertices (nodes) deleted from the last transaction.
- `deleted_edges` ➡ Edges (relationships) deleted from the last transaction.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which Katz Centrality is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the centrality value after
  bound convergence.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER katz_trigger
(BEFORE | AFTER) COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL katz_centrality_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) YIELD *
SET node.rank = rank;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Create a trigger </h3>} 

The following query sets a trigger which will update the values upon creating new data or deleting existing data: 

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality_online.set(0.2) YIELD *;

CREATE TRIGGER katz_trigger
BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL katz_centrality_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) YIELD *
SET node.rank = rank;
```

{<h3> Add new data </h3>} 

New data is added to the database: 

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality/memgraph-katz.png)


As new data is added, the triggered `katz_centrality_online.update()` procedure calculates the values. 

{<h3> Get Katz centrality </h3>} 

Return the values using the following query:

```cypher
MATCH (node)
RETURN node.id AS node_id, node.rank AS rank;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+---------+---------+
| node_id | rank    |
+---------+---------+
| 1       | 0.408   |
| 0       | 0.28    |
| 10      | 1.864   |
| 2       | 1.08    |
| 8       | 0.408   |
| 3       | 0       |
| 4       | 0       |
| 5       | 0       |
| 6       | 0       |
| 7       | 0       |
| 9       | 0.544   |
+---------+---------+
```
</Steps>

Commit message:

[main<] QM updates (#301)
* gnn

* node

* kmeans-nodeclass

* tgn

* qm

* llm

* qm

* node2vec

* node2vec

* online

* omfg

* node2vec-error

* node2vec+yield

* node2vec

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality_online.mdx, after:

---
title: katz_centrality_online
description: Optimize your graph analysis by computing Katz centrality online with Memgraph. Explore tutorials and comprehensive documentation to learn how to efficiently analyze node influence and importance using real-time Katz centrality calculations.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# katz_centrality_online

Because of its simplicity, **Katz Centrality** has become one of the most
established centrality measurements. The definition of Katz centrality is that
it presents the amount of influence by summing all walks starting from the node
of interest and weighting walks by some attenuation factor smaller than 1.

Just as the other centrality measures got their dynamic algorithm
implementations, so did **Katz Centrality**. The implementation results in a
reduction of computations needed to update already calculated results. The
algorithm offers substantially large speedups compared to static algorithm runs.

The algorithm is based on the work of Alexander van der Grinten et. al. called
[Scalable Katz Ranking Computation in Large Static and Dynamic
Graphs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.03847.pdf). The author proposes an
estimation method that computes Katz's centrality by iteratively improving upper
and lower bounds on the centrality scores. The computed scores may differ from
the real values, but the algorithm has the guarantee of preserving the rankings.

Online Katz centrality should be used in a specific way. To set the parameters,
use the `set()` procedure, which will also set the context of the streaming
algorithm. The `get()` procedure returns the resulting values stored in a cache.
Therefore, if you try to get values before first calling `set()`, the run will
fail with a proper message.

To make the incremental flow, you should set the proper trigger using the
`update()` function:

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER katz_trigger
(BEFORE | AFTER) COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL katz_centrality_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) 
YIELD node, rank
SET node.rank = rank;
```

Finally, the `reset()` function resets the context and enables new runs.


<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/katz_centrality_module/katz_centrality_online_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value      |
| ------------------- | ---------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm  |
| **Implementation**  | C++        |
| **Graph direction** | directed   |
| **Edge weights**    | unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `set()`

Use the procedure to calculate Katz Centrality. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `alpha: double (default=0.2)` ➡ Exponential decay factor defining the walk length
  importance.
- `epsilon: double (default=1e-2)` ➡ Convergence tolerance. Minimal difference in two
  adjacent pairs of nodes in the final ranking.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which Katz Centrality is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the centrality value after
  bound convergence.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To calculate Katz Centrality, use the following query:

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality_online.set(0.2, 0.01)
YIELD node, rank;
```

### `get()`

The `get()` procedure should be used once the trigger has been set or the `set()`
procedure has been called before adding changes to the graph.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which Katz Centrality is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the centrality value after
  bound convergence.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To get the Katz Centrality values, use the following query: 

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality_online.get()
YIELD node, rank;
```

### `update()`

The procedure is used to update the Katz Centrality values.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `created_vertices` ➡ Vertices (nodes) that were created in the last transaction.
- `created_edges` ➡ Edges (relationships) created in a period from the last transaction.
- `deleted_vertices` ➡ Vertices (nodes) deleted from the last transaction.
- `deleted_edges` ➡ Edges (relationships) deleted from the last transaction.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which Katz Centrality is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the centrality value after
  bound convergence.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

The procedure is used with triggers in order to update the values upon changes
to the graph: 

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER katz_trigger
(BEFORE | AFTER) COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL katz_centrality_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) 
YIELD node, rank
SET node.rank = rank;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Create a trigger </h3>} 

The following query sets a trigger which will update the values upon creating new data or deleting existing data: 

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality_online.set(0.2) 
YIELD node, rank
RETURN node, rank;

CREATE TRIGGER katz_trigger
BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL katz_centrality_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) 
YIELD node, rank
SET node.rank = rank;
```

{<h3> Add new data </h3>} 

New data is added to the database: 

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality/memgraph-katz.png)


As new data is added, the triggered `katz_centrality_online.update()` procedure calculates the values. 

{<h3> Get Katz centrality </h3>} 

Return the values using the following query:

```cypher
MATCH (node)
RETURN node.id AS node_id, node.rank AS rank;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+---------+---------+
| node_id | rank    |
+---------+---------+
| 1       | 0.408   |
| 0       | 0.28    |
| 10      | 1.864   |
| 2       | 1.08    |
| 8       | 0.408   |
| 3       | 0       |
| 4       | 0       |
| 5       | 0       |
| 6       | 0       |
| 7       | 0       |
| 9       | 0.544   |
+---------+---------+
```
</Steps>
