pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality.mdx, before:

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# katz_centrality

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
<span
style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
{children}
</span>
);

**Katz Centrality** is the measurement of centrality that incorporates the
inbound path length starting from the wanted node. More central nodes will have
closer connections rather than having many long-distance nodes connected to
them.

The implemented algorithm is based on the work of Alexander van der Grinten et.
al. called [Scalable Katz Ranking Computation in Large Static and Dynamic
Graphs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.03847.pdf)[^1]. The author proposes an
estimation method that preserves rankings for both static and dynamic Katz
centrality scenarios.

Theoretically speaking there exists an attenuation factor `(alpha^i)` smaller
than 1 which is applied to walks of length `i`. If `w_i(v)` is the number of
walks of length `i` starting from node `v`, Katz centrality is defined as:

```
Centrality(v) = sum { w_i(v) * alpha ^ i}
```

The constructed algorithm computes Katz centrality by iteratively improving the
upper and lower bounds on centrality scores. This guarantees that centrality
rankings will be correct, but it does not guarantee that the corresponding
resulting centralities will be correct.

[^1] [Scalable Katz Ranking Computation in Large Static and Dynamic
Graphs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.03847.pdf), Alexander van der Grinten et. al.

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-katz_centrality-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/katz_centrality_module/katz_centrality_module.cpp)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**algorithm**</Highlight>  |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**C++**</Highlight>        |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**directed**</Highlight>   |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight> |

## Procedures

### `get(alpha, epsilon)`

#### Input:

- `alpha: double (default=0.2)` ➡ Exponential decay factor defining the walk length
  importance.
- `epsilon: double (default=1e-2)` ➡ Convergence tolerance. Minimal difference in two
  adjacent pairs of nodes in the final ranking.

#### Output:

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which Katz Centrality is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the centrality value after
  bound convergence

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality.get()
YIELD node, rank;
```

## Example

<Steps>

### Input graph

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality/memgraph-katz.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality.get()
YIELD node, rank
RETURN node, rank;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+------------------+------------------+
| node             | rank             |
+------------------+------------------+
| (:Node {id: 9})  | 0.544            |
| (:Node {id: 7})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 6})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 5})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 4})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 3})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 8})  | 0.408            |
| (:Node {id: 2})  | 1.08             |
| (:Node {id: 10}) | 1.864            |
| (:Node {id: 0})  | 0.28             |
| (:Node {id: 1})  | 0.408            |
+------------------+------------------+
```

</Steps>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality.mdx, after:

---
title: katz_centrality
description: Learn how to enhance your graph analysis with Katz centrality in Memgraph. Access tutorials and comprehensive documentation to understand and apply Katz centrality algorithms within Memgraph's graph solution.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# katz_centrality

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
<span
style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
{children}
</span>
);

**Katz Centrality** is the measurement of centrality that incorporates the
inbound path length starting from the wanted node. More central nodes will have
closer connections rather than having many long-distance nodes connected to
them.

The implemented algorithm is based on the work of Alexander van der Grinten et.
al. called [Scalable Katz Ranking Computation in Large Static and Dynamic
Graphs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.03847.pdf)[^1]. The author proposes an
estimation method that preserves rankings for both static and dynamic Katz
centrality scenarios.

Theoretically speaking there exists an attenuation factor `(alpha^i)` smaller
than 1 which is applied to walks of length `i`. If `w_i(v)` is the number of
walks of length `i` starting from node `v`, Katz centrality is defined as:

```
Centrality(v) = sum { w_i(v) * alpha ^ i}
```

The constructed algorithm computes Katz centrality by iteratively improving the
upper and lower bounds on centrality scores. This guarantees that centrality
rankings will be correct, but it does not guarantee that the corresponding
resulting centralities will be correct.

[^1] [Scalable Katz Ranking Computation in Large Static and Dynamic
Graphs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.03847.pdf), Alexander van der Grinten et. al.

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-katz_centrality-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/katz_centrality_module/katz_centrality_module.cpp)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**algorithm**</Highlight>  |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**C++**</Highlight>        |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**directed**</Highlight>   |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight> |

## Procedures

### `get(alpha, epsilon)`

#### Input:

- `alpha: double (default=0.2)` ➡ Exponential decay factor defining the walk length
  importance.
- `epsilon: double (default=1e-2)` ➡ Convergence tolerance. Minimal difference in two
  adjacent pairs of nodes in the final ranking.

#### Output:

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which Katz Centrality is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the centrality value after
  bound convergence

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality.get()
YIELD node, rank;
```

## Example

<Steps>

### Input graph

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality/memgraph-katz.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
CALL katz_centrality.get()
YIELD node, rank
RETURN node, rank;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+------------------+------------------+
| node             | rank             |
+------------------+------------------+
| (:Node {id: 9})  | 0.544            |
| (:Node {id: 7})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 6})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 5})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 4})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 3})  | 0                |
| (:Node {id: 8})  | 0.408            |
| (:Node {id: 2})  | 1.08             |
| (:Node {id: 10}) | 1.864            |
| (:Node {id: 0})  | 0.28             |
| (:Node {id: 1})  | 0.408            |
+------------------+------------------+
```

</Steps>
