pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/kmeans_clustering.mdx, before:

---
title: kmeans
description: Discover Memgraph's k-means clustering capabilities for grouping similar nodes in graphs. Access tutorials and comprehensive documentation to learn how to efficiently perform k-means clustering and extract valuable insights from your graph data in Memgraph.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# kmeans

The k-means algorithm clusters given data by trying to separate samples in `n`
groups of equal variance by minimizing the criterion known as within-the-cluster
sum-of-squares.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/kmeans.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | module              |
| **Implementation**  | Python              |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted/unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential          |

<Callout type="info">

Too slow?

If this algorithm implementation is too slow for your use case, open an issue on [Memgraph's GitHub repository](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/issues) and request a rewrite to C++!

</Callout>

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">

You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).

</Callout>

### `get_clusters()`

For each node, the `get_clusters()` procedure returns what cluster it belongs to.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `n_clusters : int` ➡ Number of clusters to be formed.
- `embedding_property : str (default: "embedding")` ➡ Node property where embeddings are stored.
- `init : str (default: "k-means")` ➡ Initialization method. If `k-means++` is selected, initial cluster centroids are sampled per an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia. This technique speeds up convergence and is theoretically proven to be `O(logk)`-optimal. 
If `random`, `n_clusters` observations (rows) are randomly chosen for the initial centroids.
- `n_init : int (default: 10)` ➡ Number of times the k-means algorithm will be run with different centroid seeds.
- `max_iter : int (default: 10)` ➡ Length of sampling walks.
- `tol : float (default: 1e-4)` ➡ Relative tolerance of the Frobenius norm of the difference of cluster centers across consecutive iterations. Used in determining convergence.
- `algorithm : str (default: "auto")` ➡ Options are `lloyd`, `elkan`, `auto`, `full`. Description [here](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.cluster.KMeans.html#:~:text=algorithm%7B%E2%80%9Clloyd%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Celkan%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cauto%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cfull%E2%80%9D%7D%2C%20default%3D%E2%80%9Dlloyd%E2%80%9D).
- `random_state : int (default: 1998)` ➡ Random seed for the algorithm.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `cluster_id: mgp.Number` ➡ Cluster ID of the above node.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To get clusters, use the following query:

```cypher
 CALL kmeans.get_clusters(2, "embedding", "k-means++", 10, 10, 0.0001, "auto", 1) YIELD node, cluster_id
 RETURN node.id as node_id, cluster_id
   ORDER BY node_id ASC;
```

### `set_clusters()`

The `set_clusters()` procedure sets to which cluster each node it belongs to by writing cluster ID to `cluster_property`.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `n_clusters : int` ➡ Number of clusters to be formed.
- `embedding_property : str (default: "embedding")` ➡ Node property where embeddings are stored.
- `cluster_property: str (default: "cluster_id")` ➡ Node property where `cluster_id` will be stored.
- `init : str (default: "k-means")` ➡ Initialization method. If `k-means++` is selected, initial cluster centroids are sampled per an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia. This technique speeds up convergence and is theoretically proven to be `O(logk)`-optimal. 
If `random`, `n_clusters` observations (nodes) are randomly chosen for the initial centroids.
- `n_init : int (default: 10)` ➡ Number of times the k-means algorithm will be run with different centroid seeds.
- `max_iter : int (default: 10)` ➡ Length of sampling walks.
- `tol : float (default: 1e-4)` ➡ Relative tolerance of the Frobenius norm of the difference of cluster centers across consecutive iterations. Used in determining convergence.
- `algorithm : str (default: "auto")` ➡ Options are `lloyd`, `elkan`, `auto`, `full`. Description [here](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.cluster.KMeans.html#:~:text=algorithm%7B%E2%80%9Clloyd%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Celkan%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cauto%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cfull%E2%80%9D%7D%2C%20default%3D%E2%80%9Dlloyd%E2%80%9D).
- `random_state : int (default: 1998)` ➡ Random seed for the algorithm.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `cluster_id: mgp.Number` ➡ Cluster ID of the above node.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To set clusters, use the following query:

```cypher
 CALL kmeans.set_clusters(2, "embedding", "cluster_id", "k-means++", 10, 10, 0.0001, "auto", 1) YIELD node, cluster_id
 RETURN node.id as node_id, cluster_id
   ORDER BY node_id ASC;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/kmeans_clustering/img.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
CREATE (:Node {id:0, embedding: [0.90678340196609497, 0.74690568447113037, -0.65984714031219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:1, embedding: [0.90674564654509497, 0.74690568444653456, -0.64324344031219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:2, embedding: [0.86545435296609497, 0.75434568447113037, -0.65984234323419482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:3, embedding: [0.90432432496609497, 0.65454328447113037, -0.54654234031219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:4, embedding: [0.84654334234609497, 0.69994534547113037, -0.65383452341219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:5, embedding: [0.26445634534539497, 0.12543654765534037, 0.463475464352342382]});
CREATE (:Node {id:6, embedding: [0.37654756534539497, 0.13455654447113037, 0.465437534631219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:7, embedding: [0.32565654645609497, 0.24532645435433037, 0.487695876576219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:8, embedding: [0.23565676686539497, 0.23453462345345337, 0.463457345634523482]});
MATCH (a:Node {id: 0}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 0}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 1}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 2}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 2}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 3}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 4}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 5}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 6}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 6}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 7}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 8}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 8}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 8}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

{<h3> Get clusters </h3>} 

To get clusters, use the following node:

```cypher
CALL kmeans.get_clusters(2, "embedding", "k-means++", 10, 10, 0.0001, "auto", 1) YIELD node, cluster_id
RETURN node.id as node_id, cluster_id
ORDER BY node_id ASC;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| node_id                 | cluster_id              |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 0                       | 1                       |
| 1                       | 1                       |
| 2                       | 1                       |
| 4                       | 1                       |
| 5                       | 1                       |
| 6                       | 0                       |
| 7                       | 0                       |
| 8                       | 0                       |
| 9                       | 0                       |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
```
</Steps>

Commit message:

Update procedures in algo docs to include Subgraph as optional argument (#811)
* Add subgraph link

* Add subgraph link

* Fix styling

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/kmeans_clustering.mdx, after:

---
title: kmeans
description: Discover Memgraph's k-means clustering capabilities for grouping similar nodes in graphs. Access tutorials and comprehensive documentation to learn how to efficiently perform k-means clustering and extract valuable insights from your graph data in Memgraph.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# kmeans

The k-means algorithm clusters given data by trying to separate samples in `n`
groups of equal variance by minimizing the criterion known as within-the-cluster
sum-of-squares.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/kmeans.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | module              |
| **Implementation**  | Python              |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted/unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential          |

<Callout type="info">

Too slow?

If this algorithm implementation is too slow for your use case, open an issue on [Memgraph's GitHub repository](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/issues) and request a rewrite to C++!

</Callout>

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">

You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).

</Callout>

### `get_clusters()`

For each node, the `get_clusters()` procedure returns what cluster it belongs to.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.
- `n_clusters : int` ➡ Number of clusters to be formed.
- `embedding_property : str (default: "embedding")` ➡ Node property where embeddings are stored.
- `init : str (default: "k-means")` ➡ Initialization method. If `k-means++` is selected, initial cluster centroids are sampled per an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia. This technique speeds up convergence and is theoretically proven to be `O(logk)`-optimal. 
If `random`, `n_clusters` observations (rows) are randomly chosen for the initial centroids.
- `n_init : int (default: 10)` ➡ Number of times the k-means algorithm will be run with different centroid seeds.
- `max_iter : int (default: 10)` ➡ Length of sampling walks.
- `tol : float (default: 1e-4)` ➡ Relative tolerance of the Frobenius norm of the difference of cluster centers across consecutive iterations. Used in determining convergence.
- `algorithm : str (default: "auto")` ➡ Options are `lloyd`, `elkan`, `auto`, `full`. Description [here](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.cluster.KMeans.html#:~:text=algorithm%7B%E2%80%9Clloyd%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Celkan%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cauto%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cfull%E2%80%9D%7D%2C%20default%3D%E2%80%9Dlloyd%E2%80%9D).
- `random_state : int (default: 1998)` ➡ Random seed for the algorithm.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `cluster_id: mgp.Number` ➡ Cluster ID of the above node.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To get clusters, use the following query:

```cypher
 CALL kmeans.get_clusters(2, "embedding", "k-means++", 10, 10, 0.0001, "auto", 1) YIELD node, cluster_id
 RETURN node.id as node_id, cluster_id
   ORDER BY node_id ASC;
```

### `set_clusters()`

The `set_clusters()` procedure sets to which cluster each node it belongs to by writing cluster ID to `cluster_property`.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.
- `n_clusters : int` ➡ Number of clusters to be formed.
- `embedding_property : str (default: "embedding")` ➡ Node property where embeddings are stored.
- `cluster_property: str (default: "cluster_id")` ➡ Node property where `cluster_id` will be stored.
- `init : str (default: "k-means")` ➡ Initialization method. If `k-means++` is selected, initial cluster centroids are sampled per an empirical probability distribution of the points’ contribution to the overall inertia. This technique speeds up convergence and is theoretically proven to be `O(logk)`-optimal. 
If `random`, `n_clusters` observations (nodes) are randomly chosen for the initial centroids.
- `n_init : int (default: 10)` ➡ Number of times the k-means algorithm will be run with different centroid seeds.
- `max_iter : int (default: 10)` ➡ Length of sampling walks.
- `tol : float (default: 1e-4)` ➡ Relative tolerance of the Frobenius norm of the difference of cluster centers across consecutive iterations. Used in determining convergence.
- `algorithm : str (default: "auto")` ➡ Options are `lloyd`, `elkan`, `auto`, `full`. Description [here](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.cluster.KMeans.html#:~:text=algorithm%7B%E2%80%9Clloyd%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Celkan%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cauto%E2%80%9D%2C%20%E2%80%9Cfull%E2%80%9D%7D%2C%20default%3D%E2%80%9Dlloyd%E2%80%9D).
- `random_state : int (default: 1998)` ➡ Random seed for the algorithm.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ Graph node.
- `cluster_id: mgp.Number` ➡ Cluster ID of the above node.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To set clusters, use the following query:

```cypher
 CALL kmeans.set_clusters(2, "embedding", "cluster_id", "k-means++", 10, 10, 0.0001, "auto", 1) YIELD node, cluster_id
 RETURN node.id as node_id, cluster_id
   ORDER BY node_id ASC;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/kmeans_clustering/img.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
CREATE (:Node {id:0, embedding: [0.90678340196609497, 0.74690568447113037, -0.65984714031219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:1, embedding: [0.90674564654509497, 0.74690568444653456, -0.64324344031219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:2, embedding: [0.86545435296609497, 0.75434568447113037, -0.65984234323419482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:3, embedding: [0.90432432496609497, 0.65454328447113037, -0.54654234031219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:4, embedding: [0.84654334234609497, 0.69994534547113037, -0.65383452341219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:5, embedding: [0.26445634534539497, 0.12543654765534037, 0.463475464352342382]});
CREATE (:Node {id:6, embedding: [0.37654756534539497, 0.13455654447113037, 0.465437534631219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:7, embedding: [0.32565654645609497, 0.24532645435433037, 0.487695876576219482]});
CREATE (:Node {id:8, embedding: [0.23565676686539497, 0.23453462345345337, 0.463457345634523482]});
MATCH (a:Node {id: 0}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 0}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 1}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 2}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 2}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 3}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 4}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 5}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 6}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 6}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 7}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 8}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 8}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MATCH (a:Node {id: 8}) MATCH (b:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

{<h3> Get clusters </h3>} 

To get clusters, use the following node:

```cypher
CALL kmeans.get_clusters(2, "embedding", "k-means++", 10, 10, 0.0001, "auto", 1) YIELD node, cluster_id
RETURN node.id as node_id, cluster_id
ORDER BY node_id ASC;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| node_id                 | cluster_id              |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 0                       | 1                       |
| 1                       | 1                       |
| 2                       | 1                       |
| 4                       | 1                       |
| 5                       | 1                       |
| 6                       | 0                       |
| 7                       | 0                       |
| 8                       | 0                       |
| 9                       | 0                       |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
```
</Steps>
