pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/leiden_community_detection.mdx, before:

---
title: leiden_community_detection
description: Explore Memgraph's Leiden community detection capabilities and learn how to analyze the structure of complex networks. Access tutorials and comprehensive documentation to enhance your understanding of Leiden community detection algorithm.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# leiden_community_detection

Community in graphs mirrors real-world communities, like social circles. In a
graph, communities are sets of nodes. M. Girvan and M. E. J. Newman note that
nodes in a community connect more intensely with each other than with outside
nodes.

This module employs the [Leiden
algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leiden_algorithm) for community
detection based on paper [*From Louvain to Leiden: guaranteeing well-connected
communities*](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.08473). The Leiden algorithm is a
hierarchical clustering algorithm, that recursively merges communities into
single nodes by greedily optimizing the modularity and the process repeats in
the condensed graph. It enhances the Louvain algorithm by addressing its
limitations, particularly in situations where some identified communities are
not well-connected. This improvement is made by periodically subdividing
communities into smaller, well-connected groups. With an $\mathcal{O}(Lm)$
runtime for $m$ edges and $L$ number of iterations, it suits large graphs. The
space complexity if $\mathcal{O}(VE)$ for $V$ nodes and $E$ edges.

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/leiden_community_detection_module/leiden_community_detection_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait                    | Value                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------ | --------------------- |
| **Module type**          | algorithm             |
| **Implementation**       | C++                   |
| **Graph direction**      | undirected            |
| **Relationship weights** | weighted / unweighted |
| **Parallelism**          | parallel              |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of
the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get()`

Computes graph communities using the Leiden algorithm. For more information on
specific algorithm parameters and their use, refer to the paper [*From Louvain
to Leiden: guaranteeing well-connected
communities*](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.08473).

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object
  of type
  Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph)
  returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run. If
  subgraph is not specified, the algorithm is computed on the entire graph by
  default.
- `weight_property: string (default="weight")` ➡ Specifies the name of the edge
property containing the edge weight. If the user doesn't have a property to
store weight on edges in their graph, the algorithm will set all weights to `1`,
leading to the case of an **unweighted graph**. To utilize this algorithm for a
**weighted graph**, edges need to have a property storing their weights. To have
properties on edges, set `--storage-properties-on-edges` flag to `True` when
starting Memgraph. Users can either use the default property name `weight` or
set another custom property name. If they set a custom property name for weight
on edges, they need to provide that property name as a positional argument when
calling the procedure. 
- `gamma: double (default=1.0)` ➡ Resolution parameter used when computing the
  modularity. Higher resolutions lead to more smaller communities, while lower
  resolutions lead to fewer larger communities.
- `theta: double (default=0.01)` ➡ Controls the randomness while breaking a
  community into smaller ones.
- `resolution_parameter: double (default=0.01)` ➡  Minimum change in modularity
  that must be achieved when merging nodes within the same community.
- `max_iterations: int (default=inf)` ➡ Maximum number of iterations the
  algorithm will perform. If set to infinity, the algorithm will run until
  convergence is reached.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ A graph node for which the algorithm was performed and
  returned as part of the results.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not
  belong to any community.
- `communities: list` ➡ List representing the hierarchy of communities that a
  node has belonged to across iterations.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to detect communities:

```cypher
CALL leiden_community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id, communities;
```

<Callout type="info">
The algorithm throws an exception if no communities are detected. This can happen if in the first iteration 
all nodes merge into a single community or if each node forms its own. If this occurs, try adjusting the algorithm's `gamma` parameter.
</Callout>

### `get_subgraph()`

Computes graph communities over a subgraph using the Leiden method.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object
  of type
  Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph)
  returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run. If
  subgraph is not specified, the algorithm is computed on the entire graph by
  default.
- `subgraph_nodes: List[Node]` ➡ List of nodes in the subgraph.
- `subgraph_relationships: List[Relationship]` ➡ List of relationships in the
  subgraph.
- `weight: string (default=null)` ➡ Specifies the name of the property
  containing the edge weight. Users can set their own weight property; if this
  property is not specified, the algorithm uses the `weight` edge attribute by
  default. If neither is set, each edge's weight defaults to `1`. To utilize a
  custom weight property, the user must set the
  `--storage-properties-on-edges=true` flag.
- `gamma: double (default=1.0)` ➡ Resolution parameter used when computing the
  modularity. Higher resolutions lead to more smaller communities, while lower
  resolutions lead to fewer larger communities.
- `theta: double (default=0.01)` ➡ Controls the randomness while breaking a
  community into smaller ones.
- `resolution_parameter: double (default=0.01)` ➡  Minimum change in modularity
  that must be achieved when merging nodes within the same community.
- `max_iterations: int (default=inf)` ➡ Maximum number of iterations the
  algorithm will perform. If set to infinity, the algorithm will run until
  convergence is reached.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ A graph node for which the algorithm was performed and
  returned as part of the results.
- `community_id: int` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not
  belong to any community.
- `communities: list` ➡ List representing the hierarchy of communities that a
  node has belonged to across iterations.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to compute communities in a subgraph:

```cypher
MATCH (a)-[e]-(b)
WITH COLLECT(a) AS nodes, COLLECT (e) AS relationships
CALL leiden_community_detection.get_subgraph(nodes, relationships)
YIELD node, community_id, communities;
```

## Single Iteration Example

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection/community-detection-1.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
```

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Detect communities </h3>} 

Get communities using the following query:

```cypher
CALL leiden_community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id, communities
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id, communities
ORDER BY node_id;
```

Results show which nodes belong to community 0, and which to community 1.

```plaintext
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| node_id      | community_id | communities  |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| 0            | 0            | [0]          |
| 1            | 0            | [0]          |
| 2            | 0            | [0]          |
| 3            | 1            | [1]          |
| 4            | 1            | [1]          |
| 5            | 1            | [1]          |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
```

</Steps>

## Multiple Iterations Example

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality/memgraph-katz.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Detect communities </h3>} 

Get communities using the following query:

```cypher
CALL leiden_community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id, communities
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id, communities
ORDER BY node_id;
```

The results show which nodes belong to community 0 and which to community 1, as well as how nodes changed communities across iterations.

```plaintext
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| node_id      | community_id | communities  |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| 0            | 1            | [0, 1]       |
| 1            | 1            | [0, 1]       |
| 2            | 0            | [1, 0]       |
| 3            | 1            | [2, 1]       |
| 4            | 1            | [3, 1]       |
| 5            | 0            | [4, 0]       |
| 6            | 0            | [1, 0]       |
| 7            | 0            | [1, 0]       |
| 8            | 0            | [1, 0]       |
| 9            | 1            | [2, 1]       |
| 10           | 1            | [2, 1]       |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
```

</Steps>

Commit message:

Add info to Leiden (#1166)
* Add info to Leiden

* fix closing tag

* Change callout type

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/leiden_community_detection.mdx, after:

---
title: leiden_community_detection
description: Explore Memgraph's Leiden community detection capabilities and learn how to analyze the structure of complex networks. Access tutorials and comprehensive documentation to enhance your understanding of Leiden community detection algorithm.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# leiden_community_detection

Community in graphs mirrors real-world communities, like social circles. In a
graph, communities are sets of nodes. M. Girvan and M. E. J. Newman note that
nodes in a community connect more intensely with each other than with outside
nodes.

This module employs the [Leiden
algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leiden_algorithm) for community
detection based on paper [*From Louvain to Leiden: guaranteeing well-connected
communities*](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.08473). The Leiden algorithm is a
hierarchical clustering algorithm, that recursively merges communities into
single nodes by greedily optimizing the modularity and the process repeats in
the condensed graph. It enhances the Louvain algorithm by addressing its
limitations, particularly in situations where some identified communities are
not well-connected. This improvement is made by periodically subdividing
communities into smaller, well-connected groups. With an $\mathcal{O}(Lm)$
runtime for $m$ edges and $L$ number of iterations, it suits large graphs. The
space complexity if $\mathcal{O}(VE)$ for $V$ nodes and $E$ edges.

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/leiden_community_detection_module/leiden_community_detection_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait                    | Value                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------ | --------------------- |
| **Module type**          | algorithm             |
| **Implementation**       | C++                   |
| **Graph direction**      | undirected            |
| **Relationship weights** | weighted / unweighted |
| **Parallelism**          | parallel              |

<Callout type="info">
This implementation of Leiden is non-deterministic, meaning it can generate
different communities in subsequent runs. To control the randomness, tweak the
`theta` parameter.
</Callout>

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of
the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get()`

Computes graph communities using the Leiden algorithm. For more information on
specific algorithm parameters and their use, refer to the paper [*From Louvain
to Leiden: guaranteeing well-connected
communities*](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.08473).

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object
  of type
  Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph)
  returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run. If
  subgraph is not specified, the algorithm is computed on the entire graph by
  default.
- `weight_property: string (default="weight")` ➡ Specifies the name of the edge
property containing the edge weight. If the user doesn't have a property to
store weight on edges in their graph, the algorithm will set all weights to `1`,
leading to the case of an **unweighted graph**. To utilize this algorithm for a
**weighted graph**, edges need to have a property storing their weights. To have
properties on edges, set `--storage-properties-on-edges` flag to `True` when
starting Memgraph. Users can either use the default property name `weight` or
set another custom property name. If they set a custom property name for weight
on edges, they need to provide that property name as a positional argument when
calling the procedure. 
- `gamma: double (default=1.0)` ➡ Resolution parameter used when computing the
  modularity. Higher resolutions lead to more smaller communities, while lower
  resolutions lead to fewer larger communities.
- `theta: double (default=0.01)` ➡ Controls the randomness while breaking a
  community into smaller ones.
- `resolution_parameter: double (default=0.01)` ➡  Minimum change in modularity
  that must be achieved when merging nodes within the same community.
- `max_iterations: int (default=inf)` ➡ Maximum number of iterations the
  algorithm will perform. If set to infinity, the algorithm will run until
  convergence is reached.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ A graph node for which the algorithm was performed and
  returned as part of the results.
- `community_id: integer` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not
  belong to any community.
- `communities: list` ➡ List representing the hierarchy of communities that a
  node has belonged to across iterations.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to detect communities:

```cypher
CALL leiden_community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id, communities;
```

<Callout type="info">
The algorithm throws an exception if no communities are detected. This can happen if in the first iteration 
all nodes merge into a single community or if each node forms its own. If this occurs, try adjusting the algorithm's `gamma` parameter.
</Callout>

### `get_subgraph()`

Computes graph communities over a subgraph using the Leiden method.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object
  of type
  Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph)
  returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run. If
  subgraph is not specified, the algorithm is computed on the entire graph by
  default.
- `subgraph_nodes: List[Node]` ➡ List of nodes in the subgraph.
- `subgraph_relationships: List[Relationship]` ➡ List of relationships in the
  subgraph.
- `weight: string (default=null)` ➡ Specifies the name of the property
  containing the edge weight. Users can set their own weight property; if this
  property is not specified, the algorithm uses the `weight` edge attribute by
  default. If neither is set, each edge's weight defaults to `1`. To utilize a
  custom weight property, the user must set the
  `--storage-properties-on-edges=true` flag.
- `gamma: double (default=1.0)` ➡ Resolution parameter used when computing the
  modularity. Higher resolutions lead to more smaller communities, while lower
  resolutions lead to fewer larger communities.
- `theta: double (default=0.01)` ➡ Controls the randomness while breaking a
  community into smaller ones.
- `resolution_parameter: double (default=0.01)` ➡  Minimum change in modularity
  that must be achieved when merging nodes within the same community.
- `max_iterations: int (default=inf)` ➡ Maximum number of iterations the
  algorithm will perform. If set to infinity, the algorithm will run until
  convergence is reached.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Output: </h4>}

- `node: Vertex` ➡ A graph node for which the algorithm was performed and
  returned as part of the results.
- `community_id: int` ➡ Community ID. Defaults to $-1$ if the node does not
  belong to any community.
- `communities: list` ➡ List representing the hierarchy of communities that a
  node has belonged to across iterations.

{<h4 className="custom-header"> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to compute communities in a subgraph:

```cypher
MATCH (a)-[e]-(b)
WITH COLLECT(a) AS nodes, COLLECT (e) AS relationships
CALL leiden_community_detection.get_subgraph(nodes, relationships)
YIELD node, community_id, communities;
```

## Single Iteration Example

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/community_detection/community-detection-1.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
MERGE (a: Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b: Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[r: Relation]->(b);
```

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Detect communities </h3>} 

Get communities using the following query:

```cypher
CALL leiden_community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id, communities
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id, communities
ORDER BY node_id;
```

Results show which nodes belong to community 0, and which to community 1.

```plaintext
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| node_id      | community_id | communities  |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| 0            | 0            | [0]          |
| 1            | 0            | [0]          |
| 2            | 0            | [0]          |
| 3            | 1            | [1]          |
| 4            | 1            | [1]          |
| 5            | 1            | [1]          |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
```

</Steps>

## Multiple Iterations Example

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/katz_centrality/memgraph-katz.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 10}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 9}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

{<h3 className="custom-header"> Detect communities </h3>} 

Get communities using the following query:

```cypher
CALL leiden_community_detection.get()
YIELD node, community_id, communities
RETURN node.id AS node_id, community_id, communities
ORDER BY node_id;
```

The results show which nodes belong to community 0 and which to community 1, as well as how nodes changed communities across iterations.

```plaintext
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| node_id      | community_id | communities  |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
| 0            | 1            | [0, 1]       |
| 1            | 1            | [0, 1]       |
| 2            | 0            | [1, 0]       |
| 3            | 1            | [2, 1]       |
| 4            | 1            | [3, 1]       |
| 5            | 0            | [4, 0]       |
| 6            | 0            | [1, 0]       |
| 7            | 0            | [1, 0]       |
| 8            | 0            | [1, 0]       |
| 9            | 1            | [2, 1]       |
| 10           | 1            | [2, 1]       |
+--------------+--------------+--------------+
```

</Steps>
