pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node2vec.mdx, before:

---
title: node2vec
description:  Learn how to use node2vec for graph analysis and machine learning with Memgraph, a powerful graph computing solution. Access step-by-step instructions and documentation to leverage node2vec for enhanced analysis of your graph data.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# node2vec

The **node2vec** is a semi-supervised algorithmic framework for learning
continuous feature representations for nodes in networks. The algorithm
generates a mapping of nodes to a low-dimensional space of features that
maximizes the likelihood of preserving network neighborhoods of nodes. By using
a biased random walk procedure, it enables exploring diverse neighborhoods. In
tasks such as multi-label classification and link prediction, node2vec shows
great results. Check out [Scalable Feature Learning for
Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.00653) by A. Grover and J. Leskovec.

The **node2vec** algorithm was inspired by a similar **NLP** technique. The same
way as a document is an ordered sequence of words, by sampling sequences of
nodes from the underlying network and turning a network into an ordered sequence
of nodes. Although the idea of sampling is easy, choosing the actual strategy
can be challenging and dependant on the techniques that will be applied
afterward.

Capturing information in networks often shuttles between two kinds of
similarities: **homophily** and **structural equivalence**. Under the
**homophily** hypothesis, nodes that are highly interconnected and belong to
similar network clusters or communities should be embedded closely together. In
contrast, under the **structural equivalence** hypothesis, nodes that have
similar structural roles in networks should be embedded closely together (e.g.,
nodes that act as hubs of their corresponding communities).

The current implementation easily captures **homophily** or **structural
equivalence** by changing hyperparameters.

`BFS` and `DFS` strategies play a key role in producing representations that
reflect either of the above equivalences. The neighborhoods sampled by `BFS`
lead to embeddings that correspond closely to structural equivalence. The
opposite is true for `DFS`. It can explore larger parts of the network as it
can move further away from the source node. Therefore, `DFS` sampled walks
accurately reflect a macro-view of the neighborhood, which is essential in
inferring communities based on homophily.

By having different parameters:

- **return parameter `p`**
- and **in-out parameter`q`**

one decides whether to prioritize the `BFS` or `DFS` strategy when sampling. If
`p` is smaller than 1, then we create more `BFS` like walks and we capture more
**structural equivalence**. The opposite is true if `q` is smaller than 1. Then we
capture `DFS` like walks and **homophily**.

node2vec can be used for [link
prediction](https://memgraph.com/blog/link-prediction-with-node2vec-in-physics-collaboration-network).
We recommend you use the [link prediction with
GNN](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/gnn_link_prediction) as it's more
precise (node2vec gives a correct results in approximately 35% cases, while GNNs
are correct in approximately 75% cases).

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/node2vec.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | module              |
| **Implementation**  | Python              |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted/unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential          |

<Callout type="info"> 

Too slow?

If this algorithm implementation is too slow for your use case, open an issue on [Memgraph's GitHub repository](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/issues) and request a rewrite to C++!

</Callout>

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get_embeddings()`
 
The procedure returns calculated embeddings and the corresponding list of embeddings. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `is_directed : boolean` ➡ If `True`, graph is treated as directed, otherwise
  it's treated as undirected
- `p : float` ➡ Return hyperparameter for calculating transition probabilities.
- `q : float` ➡ In-out hyperparameter for calculating transition probabilities.
- `num_walks : integer` ➡ The number of walks per node in the walk sampling.
- `walk_length : integer` ➡ Length of one walk in the walk sampling.
- `vector_size : integer` ➡ Dimensionality of the word vectors.
- `alpha : float (default=0.025)` ➡ The initial learning rate.
- `window : integer` ➡ The maximum distance between the current and predicted word
  within a sentence.
- `min_count : integer` ➡ Ignores all words with total frequency lower than this.
- `seed : integer` ➡ Seed for the random number generator. Initial vectors for each
  word are seeded with a hash of the concatenation of word + `str(seed)`.
- `workers : integer` ➡ Use these many worker threads to train the model (=faster
  training with multicore machines).
- `min_alpha : float` ➡ Learning rate will linearly drop to `min_alpha` as
  training progresses.
- `sg : {0, 1}` ➡ Training algorithm: 1 for skip-gram; otherwise CBOW.
- `hs : {0, 1}` ➡ If 1, hierarchical softmax will be used for model training. If
  0, and `negative` is non-zero, negative sampling will be used.
- `negative : integer` ➡ If > 0, negative sampling will be used, the integer for
  negative specifies how many "noise words" should be drawn (usually
  between 5-20). If set to 0, no negative sampling is used.
- `epochs : integer (default=5)`
- `edge_weight_property : string (default="weight")`

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `nodes: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ List of nodes for which embeddings were
  calculated
- `embeddings: mgp.List[mgp.List[mgp.Number]]` ➡ Corresponding list of
  embeddings

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To get the calculated embeddings and the corresponding list of embeddings, use
the following query: 

```cypher
CALL node2vec.get_embeddings(False, 2.0, 0.5, 4, 5, 100, 0.025, 5, 1, 1, 1, 0.0001, 1, 0, 5, 5, "weight");
```

### `set_embeddings()`

The procedure calculates embeddings, creates a property of type `List` on a node
with the embedding values and returns the corresponding list of embeddings. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `is_directed : boolean` ➡ If `True`, graph is treated as directed, else not
  directed
- `p : float` ➡ Return hyperparameter for calculating transition probabilities.
- `q : float` ➡ In-out hyperparameter for calculating transition probabilities.
- `num_walks : integer` ➡ The number of walks per node in walk sampling.
- `walk_length : integer` ➡ Length of one walk in walk sampling.
- `vector_size : integer` ➡ Dimensionality of the word vectors.
- `alpha : float` ➡ The initial learning rate.
- `window : integer` ➡ The maximum distance between the current and predicted word
  within a sentence.
- `min_count : integer` ➡ Ignores all words with total frequency lower than this.
- `seed : integer` ➡ Seed for the random number generator. Initial vectors for each
  word are seeded with a hash of the concatenation of word + `str(seed)`.
- `workers : integer` ➡ Use these many worker threads to train the model (=faster
  training with multicore machines).
- `min_alpha : float` ➡ Learning rate will linearly drop to `min_alpha` as
  training progresses.
- `sg : {0, 1}` ➡ Training algorithm: 1 for skip-gram; otherwise CBOW.
- `hs : {0, 1}` ➡ If 1, hierarchical softmax will be used for model training. If
  0, and `negative` is non-zero, negative sampling will be used.
- `negative : integer` ➡ If > 0, negative sampling will be used, the int for
  negative specifies how many "noise words" should be drawn (usually
  between 5-20). If set to 0, no negative sampling is used.
- `epochs : integer (default=5)`
- `edge_weight_property : string (default="weight")`

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `nodes: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ List of nodes for which embeddings were
  calculated
- `embeddings: mgp.List[mgp.List[mgp.Number]]` ➡ Corresponding list of
  embeddings

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To calculate embeddings, use the following query: 

```cypher
CALL node2vec.set_embeddings(False, 2.0, 0.5, 4, 5, 100, 0.025, 5, 1, 1, 1, 0.0001, 1, 0, 5, 5, "weight");
```

### `help()`

The procedure returns the list of avaliable procedures and input parameters.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `name: string` ➡ Names of the available functions.
- `value: string` ➡ Documentation for every function.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To get help about the queries from this module, use the following query:

```cypher
CALL node2vec.help()
YIELD name, value
RETURN name, value;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![Input graph](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node2vec/node2vec.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (n:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 7}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
```

{<h3> Set embeddings </h3>} 

Use the following query to set a new node propertie with the calculated
embeddings:

```cypher
CALL node2vec.set_embeddings(False, 2.0, 0.5, 4, 5, 2) 
YIELD nodes, embeddings
RETURN nodes, embeddings;
```

{<h3> Check embeddings </h3>} 

Run the following query to check the embeddings:

```cypher
MATCH (n)
RETURN n.id as node, n.embedding as embedding
ORDER BY n.id;
```

Result:

```plaintext
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| node                    | embedding               |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 1                       | [-0.243723, -0.0916009] |
| 2                       | [0.25442, 0.449585]     |
| 3                       | [0.322331, 0.448404]    |
| 4                       | [0.143389, 0.0492275]   |
| 5                       | [-0.465552, -0.35653]   |
| 6                       | [-0.0272922, 0.0111898] |
| 7                       | [0.368725, -0.0773199]  |
| 8                       | [-0.414683, -0.472285]  |
| 9                       | [-0.226683, 0.328159]   |
| 10                      | [-0.251244, -0.189218]  |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
```
</Steps>

Commit message:

Update procedures in algo docs to include Subgraph as optional argument (#811)
* Add subgraph link

* Add subgraph link

* Fix styling

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node2vec.mdx, after:

---
title: node2vec
description:  Learn how to use node2vec for graph analysis and machine learning with Memgraph, a powerful graph computing solution. Access step-by-step instructions and documentation to leverage node2vec for enhanced analysis of your graph data.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# node2vec

The **node2vec** is a semi-supervised algorithmic framework for learning
continuous feature representations for nodes in networks. The algorithm
generates a mapping of nodes to a low-dimensional space of features that
maximizes the likelihood of preserving network neighborhoods of nodes. By using
a biased random walk procedure, it enables exploring diverse neighborhoods. In
tasks such as multi-label classification and link prediction, node2vec shows
great results. Check out [Scalable Feature Learning for
Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.00653) by A. Grover and J. Leskovec.

The **node2vec** algorithm was inspired by a similar **NLP** technique. The same
way as a document is an ordered sequence of words, by sampling sequences of
nodes from the underlying network and turning a network into an ordered sequence
of nodes. Although the idea of sampling is easy, choosing the actual strategy
can be challenging and dependant on the techniques that will be applied
afterward.

Capturing information in networks often shuttles between two kinds of
similarities: **homophily** and **structural equivalence**. Under the
**homophily** hypothesis, nodes that are highly interconnected and belong to
similar network clusters or communities should be embedded closely together. In
contrast, under the **structural equivalence** hypothesis, nodes that have
similar structural roles in networks should be embedded closely together (e.g.,
nodes that act as hubs of their corresponding communities).

The current implementation easily captures **homophily** or **structural
equivalence** by changing hyperparameters.

`BFS` and `DFS` strategies play a key role in producing representations that
reflect either of the above equivalences. The neighborhoods sampled by `BFS`
lead to embeddings that correspond closely to structural equivalence. The
opposite is true for `DFS`. It can explore larger parts of the network as it
can move further away from the source node. Therefore, `DFS` sampled walks
accurately reflect a macro-view of the neighborhood, which is essential in
inferring communities based on homophily.

By having different parameters:

- **return parameter `p`**
- and **in-out parameter`q`**

one decides whether to prioritize the `BFS` or `DFS` strategy when sampling. If
`p` is smaller than 1, then we create more `BFS` like walks and we capture more
**structural equivalence**. The opposite is true if `q` is smaller than 1. Then we
capture `DFS` like walks and **homophily**.

node2vec can be used for [link
prediction](https://memgraph.com/blog/link-prediction-with-node2vec-in-physics-collaboration-network).
We recommend you use the [link prediction with
GNN](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/gnn_link_prediction) as it's more
precise (node2vec gives a correct results in approximately 35% cases, while GNNs
are correct in approximately 75% cases).

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/node2vec.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | module              |
| **Implementation**  | Python              |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted/unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential          |

<Callout type="info"> 

Too slow?

If this algorithm implementation is too slow for your use case, open an issue on [Memgraph's GitHub repository](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/issues) and request a rewrite to C++!

</Callout>

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get_embeddings()`
 
The procedure returns calculated embeddings and the corresponding list of embeddings. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.
- `is_directed : boolean` ➡ If `True`, graph is treated as directed, otherwise
  it's treated as undirected
- `p : float` ➡ Return hyperparameter for calculating transition probabilities.
- `q : float` ➡ In-out hyperparameter for calculating transition probabilities.
- `num_walks : integer` ➡ The number of walks per node in the walk sampling.
- `walk_length : integer` ➡ Length of one walk in the walk sampling.
- `vector_size : integer` ➡ Dimensionality of the word vectors.
- `alpha : float (default=0.025)` ➡ The initial learning rate.
- `window : integer` ➡ The maximum distance between the current and predicted word
  within a sentence.
- `min_count : integer` ➡ Ignores all words with total frequency lower than this.
- `seed : integer` ➡ Seed for the random number generator. Initial vectors for each
  word are seeded with a hash of the concatenation of word + `str(seed)`.
- `workers : integer` ➡ Use these many worker threads to train the model (=faster
  training with multicore machines).
- `min_alpha : float` ➡ Learning rate will linearly drop to `min_alpha` as
  training progresses.
- `sg : {0, 1}` ➡ Training algorithm: 1 for skip-gram; otherwise CBOW.
- `hs : {0, 1}` ➡ If 1, hierarchical softmax will be used for model training. If
  0, and `negative` is non-zero, negative sampling will be used.
- `negative : integer` ➡ If > 0, negative sampling will be used, the integer for
  negative specifies how many "noise words" should be drawn (usually
  between 5-20). If set to 0, no negative sampling is used.
- `epochs : integer (default=5)`
- `edge_weight_property : string (default="weight")`

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `nodes: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ List of nodes for which embeddings were
  calculated
- `embeddings: mgp.List[mgp.List[mgp.Number]]` ➡ Corresponding list of
  embeddings

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To get the calculated embeddings and the corresponding list of embeddings, use
the following query: 

```cypher
CALL node2vec.get_embeddings(False, 2.0, 0.5, 4, 5, 100, 0.025, 5, 1, 1, 1, 0.0001, 1, 0, 5, 5, "weight");
```

### `set_embeddings()`

The procedure calculates embeddings, creates a property of type `List` on a node
with the embedding values and returns the corresponding list of embeddings. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.
- `is_directed : boolean` ➡ If `True`, graph is treated as directed, else not
  directed
- `p : float` ➡ Return hyperparameter for calculating transition probabilities.
- `q : float` ➡ In-out hyperparameter for calculating transition probabilities.
- `num_walks : integer` ➡ The number of walks per node in walk sampling.
- `walk_length : integer` ➡ Length of one walk in walk sampling.
- `vector_size : integer` ➡ Dimensionality of the word vectors.
- `alpha : float` ➡ The initial learning rate.
- `window : integer` ➡ The maximum distance between the current and predicted word
  within a sentence.
- `min_count : integer` ➡ Ignores all words with total frequency lower than this.
- `seed : integer` ➡ Seed for the random number generator. Initial vectors for each
  word are seeded with a hash of the concatenation of word + `str(seed)`.
- `workers : integer` ➡ Use these many worker threads to train the model (=faster
  training with multicore machines).
- `min_alpha : float` ➡ Learning rate will linearly drop to `min_alpha` as
  training progresses.
- `sg : {0, 1}` ➡ Training algorithm: 1 for skip-gram; otherwise CBOW.
- `hs : {0, 1}` ➡ If 1, hierarchical softmax will be used for model training. If
  0, and `negative` is non-zero, negative sampling will be used.
- `negative : integer` ➡ If > 0, negative sampling will be used, the int for
  negative specifies how many "noise words" should be drawn (usually
  between 5-20). If set to 0, no negative sampling is used.
- `epochs : integer (default=5)`
- `edge_weight_property : string (default="weight")`

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `nodes: mgp.List[mgp.Vertex]` ➡ List of nodes for which embeddings were
  calculated
- `embeddings: mgp.List[mgp.List[mgp.Number]]` ➡ Corresponding list of
  embeddings

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To calculate embeddings, use the following query: 

```cypher
CALL node2vec.set_embeddings(False, 2.0, 0.5, 4, 5, 100, 0.025, 5, 1, 1, 1, 0.0001, 1, 0, 5, 5, "weight");
```

### `help()`

The procedure returns the list of avaliable procedures and input parameters.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `name: string` ➡ Names of the available functions.
- `value: string` ➡ Documentation for every function.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To get help about the queries from this module, use the following query:

```cypher
CALL node2vec.help()
YIELD name, value
RETURN name, value;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![Input graph](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node2vec/node2vec.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (n:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 10}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 7}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 7}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 9}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 8}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 8}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
MERGE (n:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (m:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (n)-[:RELATION]->(m);
```

{<h3> Set embeddings </h3>} 

Use the following query to set a new node propertie with the calculated
embeddings:

```cypher
CALL node2vec.set_embeddings(False, 2.0, 0.5, 4, 5, 2) 
YIELD nodes, embeddings
RETURN nodes, embeddings;
```

{<h3> Check embeddings </h3>} 

Run the following query to check the embeddings:

```cypher
MATCH (n)
RETURN n.id as node, n.embedding as embedding
ORDER BY n.id;
```

Result:

```plaintext
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| node                    | embedding               |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
| 1                       | [-0.243723, -0.0916009] |
| 2                       | [0.25442, 0.449585]     |
| 3                       | [0.322331, 0.448404]    |
| 4                       | [0.143389, 0.0492275]   |
| 5                       | [-0.465552, -0.35653]   |
| 6                       | [-0.0272922, 0.0111898] |
| 7                       | [0.368725, -0.0773199]  |
| 8                       | [-0.414683, -0.472285]  |
| 9                       | [-0.226683, 0.328159]   |
| 10                      | [-0.251244, -0.189218]  |
+-------------------------+-------------------------+
```
</Steps>
