pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity.mdx, before:

---
title: node_similarity
description: Discover Memgraph's node similarity algorithms for comprehensive analysis of node similarity in graphs. Access tutorials and comprehensive documentation to learn how to measure, analyze, and leverage node similarity in Memgraph.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# node_similarity

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-node_similarity-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/node_similarity_module/node_similarity_module.cpp)


## Abstract

If we're interested in how similar two nodes in a graph are, we'll want to get a numerical value that represents the <em>node similarity</em> between those two nodes. There are many node similarity measures and currently this module contains the following: 
* cosine similarity
* Jaccard similarity 
* overlap similarity

**The Jaccard similarity** is computed using the following formula:
<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=Jaccard(A,B)&space;=&space;\frac{|A&space;\cap&space;B|}&space;{|A|&space;&plus;&space;|B|&space;-&space;|A&space;\cap&space;B|}" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?Jaccard(A,B)&space;=&space;\frac{|A&space;\cap&space;B|}&space;{|A|&space;&plus;&space;|B|&space;-&space;|A&space;\cap&space;B|}" title="Jaccard(A,B) = \frac{|A \cap B|} {|A| + |B| - |A \cap B|}" /></a>

**The overlap similarity** is computed using the following formula:
<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=Overlap(A,B)&space;=&space;\frac{|A&space;\cap&space;B|}&space;{min(|A|,&space;|B|)}" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?Overlap(A,B)&space;=&space;\frac{|A&space;\cap&space;B|}&space;{min(|A|,&space;|B|)}" title="Overlap(A,B) = \frac{|A \cap B|} {min(|A|, |B|)}" /></a>

**The cosine similarity** computes similarity between two nodes based on some property. This property should be a vector and it can be computed using the following formula:
![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity/cosine_sim.png)

Set A represents all outgoing neighbors of one node, set B represents all outgoing neighbors of the other node. In all the given formulas, the numerator is the cardinality of the intersection of set A and set B (in other words, the cardinality of the common neighbors set). The denominator differs but requires the cardinality of sets A and B in some way.

For each similarity measure, there are two functions, one that calculates similarity between all pairs of nodes and the other, pairwise function, that takes into account pairwise similarities between two set of nodes.


| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**algorithm**</Highlight>  |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**C++**</Highlight>     |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**directed**</Highlight> |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight> |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
If you want to execute this algorithm on graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph, be sure to check out [how to run a MAGE module on subgraphs](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `cosine()`

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The cosine similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL node_similarity.cosine() YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity
```

### `cosine_pairwise(src_nodes, dst_nodes)`

#### Input:

* `src_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The first set of nodes.
* `dst_nodes: List[Vertex]]` ➡ The second set of nodes.
* `property: str` ➡ The property based on which the cosine similarity will be calculated. If the property is not of the vector type, the error will be thrown.

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The cosine similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:
```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id < 8
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.cosine_pairwise("score", nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity
```

### `jaccard()`

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The Jaccard similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL node_similarity.jaccard() YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity;
```

### `jaccard_pairwise(src_nodes, dst_nodes)`

#### Input:

* `src_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The first set of nodes.
* `dst_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The second set of nodes.

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The Jaccard similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:

```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id < 8
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.jaccard_pairwise(nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity
```

### `overlap()`

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The overlap similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL node_similarity.overlap() YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity;
```


### `overlap_pairwise(node1, node2)`

#### Input:

* `src_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The first set of nodes.
* `dst_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The second set of nodes.

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The overlap similarity between the first and the second node.


```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id < 8
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.overlap_pairwise(nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity;
```

## Example - cosine pairwise similarity

<Steps>

### Input graph

  ![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity/node-similarity-1.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
CREATE (b:Node {id: 0, score: [1.0, 1.0, 1.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 1, score: [1.0, 1.0, 1.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 2, score: [1.0, 1.0, 1.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 3, score: [1.0, 1.0, 0.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 4, score: [0.0, 1.0, 0.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 5, score: [1.0, 0.0, 1.0]});
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id < 3
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.cosine_pairwise("score", nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity AS cosine_similarity
RETURN node1, node2, cosine_similarity;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| node1             | node2             | cosine_similarity |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| (:Node {id: 1})   | (:Node {id: 3})   | 0.816             |
| (:Node {id: 2})   | (:Node {id: 4})   | 0.577             |
| (:Node {id: 0})   | (:Node {id: 5})   | 0.816             |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+

```

</Steps>

## Example - Jaccard pairwise similarity

<Steps>

### Input graph

  ![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity/node-similarity-1.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id < 3
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.jaccard_pairwise(nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity AS jaccard_similarity
RETURN node1, node2, jaccard_similarity;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| node1             | node2             | jaccard_similarity |
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| (:Node {id: 1})   | (:Node {id: 3})   | 0.0                |
| (:Node {id: 2})   | (:Node {id: 4})   | 0.25               |
| (:Node {id: 0})   | (:Node {id: 5})   | 0.5                |
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+

```
</Steps>

## Example - overlap similarity

<Steps>

### Input graph

  ![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity/node-similarity-1.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id < 3
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.overlap_pairwise(nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity AS overlap_similarity
RETURN node1, node2, overlap_similarity;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| node1             | node2             | overlap_similarity |
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| (:Node {id: 1})   | (:Node {id: 3})   | 0.0                |
| (:Node {id: 2})   | (:Node {id: 4})   | 0.5                |
| (:Node {id: 0})   | (:Node {id: 5})   | 1.0                |
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+

```

</Steps>

Commit message:

Add property to method call

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity.mdx, after:

---
title: node_similarity
description: Discover Memgraph's node similarity algorithms for comprehensive analysis of node similarity in graphs. Access tutorials and comprehensive documentation to learn how to measure, analyze, and leverage node similarity in Memgraph.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# node_similarity

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-node_similarity-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/node_similarity_module/node_similarity_module.cpp)


## Abstract

If we're interested in how similar two nodes in a graph are, we'll want to get a numerical value that represents the <em>node similarity</em> between those two nodes. There are many node similarity measures and currently this module contains the following: 
* cosine similarity
* Jaccard similarity 
* overlap similarity

**The Jaccard similarity** is computed using the following formula:
<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=Jaccard(A,B)&space;=&space;\frac{|A&space;\cap&space;B|}&space;{|A|&space;&plus;&space;|B|&space;-&space;|A&space;\cap&space;B|}" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?Jaccard(A,B)&space;=&space;\frac{|A&space;\cap&space;B|}&space;{|A|&space;&plus;&space;|B|&space;-&space;|A&space;\cap&space;B|}" title="Jaccard(A,B) = \frac{|A \cap B|} {|A| + |B| - |A \cap B|}" /></a>

**The overlap similarity** is computed using the following formula:
<a href="https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php?latex=Overlap(A,B)&space;=&space;\frac{|A&space;\cap&space;B|}&space;{min(|A|,&space;|B|)}" target="_blank"><img src="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?Overlap(A,B)&space;=&space;\frac{|A&space;\cap&space;B|}&space;{min(|A|,&space;|B|)}" title="Overlap(A,B) = \frac{|A \cap B|} {min(|A|, |B|)}" /></a>

**The cosine similarity** computes similarity between two nodes based on some property. This property should be a vector and it can be computed using the following formula:
![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity/cosine_sim.png)

Set A represents all outgoing neighbors of one node, set B represents all outgoing neighbors of the other node. In all the given formulas, the numerator is the cardinality of the intersection of set A and set B (in other words, the cardinality of the common neighbors set). The denominator differs but requires the cardinality of sets A and B in some way.

For each similarity measure, there are two functions, one that calculates similarity between all pairs of nodes and the other, pairwise function, that takes into account pairwise similarities between two set of nodes.


| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**algorithm**</Highlight>  |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**C++**</Highlight>     |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**directed**</Highlight> |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight> |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
If you want to execute this algorithm on graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph, be sure to check out [how to run a MAGE module on subgraphs](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `cosine(property)`

#### Input:

* `property: str` ➡ The property based on which the cosine similarity will be calculated. If the property is not of the vector type, the error will be thrown.

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The cosine similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL node_similarity.cosine("score") YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity
```

### `cosine_pairwise(src_nodes, dst_nodes, property)`

#### Input:

* `src_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The first set of nodes.
* `dst_nodes: List[Vertex]]` ➡ The second set of nodes.
* `property: str` ➡ The property based on which the cosine similarity will be calculated. If the property is not of the vector type, the error will be thrown.

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The cosine similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:
```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id < 8
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.cosine_pairwise("score", nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity
```

### `jaccard()`

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The Jaccard similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL node_similarity.jaccard() YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity;
```

### `jaccard_pairwise(src_nodes, dst_nodes)`

#### Input:

* `src_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The first set of nodes.
* `dst_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The second set of nodes.

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The Jaccard similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:

```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id < 8
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.jaccard_pairwise(nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity
```

### `overlap()`

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The overlap similarity between the first and the second node.

#### Usage:
```cypher
CALL node_similarity.overlap() YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity;
```


### `overlap_pairwise(node1, node2)`

#### Input:

* `src_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The first set of nodes.
* `dst_nodes: List[Vertex]` ➡ The second set of nodes.

#### Output:

* `node1: Vertex` ➡ The first node.
* `node2: Vertex` ➡ The second node.
* `similarity: float` ➡  The overlap similarity between the first and the second node.


```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id < 8
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.overlap_pairwise(nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity
RETURN node1, node2, similarity;
```

## Example - cosine pairwise similarity

<Steps>

### Input graph

  ![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity/node-similarity-1.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
CREATE (b:Node {id: 0, score: [1.0, 1.0, 1.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 1, score: [1.0, 1.0, 1.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 2, score: [1.0, 1.0, 1.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 3, score: [1.0, 1.0, 0.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 4, score: [0.0, 1.0, 0.0]});
CREATE (b:Node {id: 5, score: [1.0, 0.0, 1.0]});
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id < 3
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.cosine_pairwise("score", nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity AS cosine_similarity
RETURN node1, node2, cosine_similarity;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| node1             | node2             | cosine_similarity |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
| (:Node {id: 1})   | (:Node {id: 3})   | 0.816             |
| (:Node {id: 2})   | (:Node {id: 4})   | 0.577             |
| (:Node {id: 0})   | (:Node {id: 5})   | 0.816             |
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+

```

</Steps>

## Example - Jaccard pairwise similarity

<Steps>

### Input graph

  ![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity/node-similarity-1.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id < 3
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.jaccard_pairwise(nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity AS jaccard_similarity
RETURN node1, node2, jaccard_similarity;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| node1             | node2             | jaccard_similarity |
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| (:Node {id: 1})   | (:Node {id: 3})   | 0.0                |
| (:Node {id: 2})   | (:Node {id: 4})   | 0.25               |
| (:Node {id: 0})   | (:Node {id: 5})   | 0.5                |
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+

```
</Steps>

## Example - overlap similarity

<Steps>

### Input graph

  ![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/node_similarity/node-similarity-1.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
MATCH (m)
WHERE m.id < 3
WITH COLLECT(m) AS nodes1
MATCH (n)
WHERE n.id > 2
WITH COLLECT(n) AS nodes2, nodes1
CALL node_similarity.overlap_pairwise(nodes1, nodes2) YIELD node1, node2, similarity AS overlap_similarity
RETURN node1, node2, overlap_similarity;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| node1             | node2             | overlap_similarity |
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+
| (:Node {id: 1})   | (:Node {id: 3})   | 0.0                |
| (:Node {id: 2})   | (:Node {id: 4})   | 0.5                |
| (:Node {id: 0})   | (:Node {id: 5})   | 1.0                |
+-------------------+-------------------+--------------------+

```

</Steps>
