pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank.mdx, before:

---
title: pagerank
description: Uncover the importance and influence of nodes in your graph data by utilizing Memgraph's pagerank algorithm. Access expert instructions and comprehensive documentation as well for helpful insights. 
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# pagerank



If we present nodes as pages and directed edges between them as links, the
**PageRank** algorithm outputs a probability distribution used to represent the
likelihood that a person randomly clicking on links will arrive at any
particular page.

**PageRank** theory holds that an imaginary surfer who is randomly clicking on
links will eventually stop clicking. The probability, at any step, that the
person will continue randomly clicking on links is called a damping factor,
otherwise, the next page is chosen randomly among all pages.

**PageRank** is computed iteratively using the following formula:

```
Rank(n, t + 1) = (1 - d) / number_of_nodes
                + d * sum { Rank(in_neighbour_of_n, t) /
                out_degree(in_neighbour_of_n)}
```

Where Rank(n, t) is **PageRank** of node n at iteration t. In the end, *rank*
values are **normalized** to sum 1 to form a probability distribution.

The algorithm is implemented in such a way that all available **threads** are
used to calculate PageRank, mostly for scalability purposes.

Default arguments are equal to default arguments in
[NetworkX](https://networkx.org/documentation/stable/reference/algorithms/generated/networkx.algorithms.link_analysis.pagerank_alg.pagerank.html)
PageRank implementation.

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-pagerank-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/pagerank_module/pagerank_module.cpp)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm  |
| **Implementation**  | C++        |
| **Graph direction** | directed   |
| **Edge weights**    | unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | parallel   |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get()`

The procedure calculates the PageRank. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

* `max_iterations: integer (default=100)` ➡ Maximum number of iterations within PageRank
  algorithm.
* `damping_factor: double (default=0.85)` ➡ PageRanks damping factor. This is the
  probability of continuing the random walk from a random node within the graph.
* `stop_epsilon: double (default=1e-5)` ➡ Value used to terminate the iterations of
  PageRank. If change from one iteration to another is lower than
  *stop_epsilon*, execution is stopped.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

* `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which PageRank is calculated.
* `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the probability that a random
  surfer will finish in a certain node by a random walk.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

The following query calculated the PageRank:

```cypher
CALL pagerank.get()
YIELD node, rank;
```

## Example

<Steps>
### Input graph

![Input graph](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank/memgraph-pagerank.png)

### Cypher load commands

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 7}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

### Running command

```cypher
CALL pagerank.get()
YIELD node, rank
RETURN node, rank;
```

### Results

```plaintext
+-----------------+-----------------+
| node            | rank            |
+-----------------+-----------------+
| (:Node {id: 1}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 0}) | 0.333607        |
| (:Node {id: 2}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 3}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 4}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 5}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 6}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 7}) | 0.338255        |
+-----------------+-----------------+
```
</Steps>

Commit message:

[main<] Improving QM docs (#335)
* f

* bla

* pagerank

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank.mdx, after:

---
title: pagerank
description: Uncover the importance and influence of nodes in your graph data by utilizing Memgraph's pagerank algorithm. Access expert instructions and comprehensive documentation as well for helpful insights. 
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# pagerank

If we present nodes as pages and directed relationships between them as links, the
**PageRank** algorithm outputs a probability distribution used to represent the
likelihood that a person randomly clicking on links will arrive at any
particular page.

**PageRank** theory holds that an imaginary surfer who is randomly clicking on
links will eventually stop clicking. The probability, at any step, that the
person will continue randomly clicking on links is called a damping factor,
otherwise, the next page is chosen randomly among all pages.

**PageRank** is computed iteratively using the following formula:

```
Rank(n, t + 1) = (1 - d) / number_of_nodes
                + d * sum { Rank(in_neighbour_of_n, t) /
                out_degree(in_neighbour_of_n)}
```

Where `Rank(n, t)` is **PageRank** of node `n` at iteration `t`. In the end, *rank*
values are **normalized** to sum 1 to form a probability distribution.

The algorithm is implemented in such a way that all available **threads** are
used to calculate PageRank, mostly for scalability purposes.

Default arguments are equal to default arguments in
[NetworkX](https://networkx.org/documentation/stable/reference/algorithms/generated/networkx.algorithms.link_analysis.pagerank_alg.pagerank.html)
PageRank implementation.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/pagerank_module/pagerank_module.cpp"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value      |
| ------------------- | ---------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm  |
| **Implementation**  | C++        |
| **Graph direction** | directed   |
| **Edge weights**    | unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | parallel   |

## Procedures

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `get()`

The procedure calculates the PageRank. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

* `max_iterations: integer (default=100)` ➡ Maximum number of iterations within PageRank
  algorithm.
* `damping_factor: double (default=0.85)` ➡ PageRanks damping factor. This is the
  probability of continuing the random walk from a random node within the graph.
* `stop_epsilon: double (default=1e-5)` ➡ Value used to terminate the iterations of
  PageRank. If change from one iteration to another is lower than
  *stop_epsilon*, execution is stopped.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

* `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which PageRank is calculated.
* `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the probability that a random
  surfer will finish in a certain node by a random walk.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

The following query calculated the PageRank:

```cypher
CALL pagerank.get()
YIELD node, rank;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Database state </h3>} 

The database contains the following data: 

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank/memgraph-pagerank.png)

Created with the following Cypher queries:

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 5}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 6}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 7}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

{<h3> Calculate PageRank </h3>} 

Calculate PageRank using the following query:

```cypher
CALL pagerank.get()
YIELD node, rank
RETURN node, rank;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+-----------------+-----------------+
| node            | rank            |
+-----------------+-----------------+
| (:Node {id: 1}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 0}) | 0.333607        |
| (:Node {id: 2}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 3}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 4}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 5}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 6}) | 0.0546896       |
| (:Node {id: 7}) | 0.338255        |
+-----------------+-----------------+
```

</Steps>
