pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank_online.mdx, before:

---
title: pagerank_online
description: Leverage Memgraph's pagerank_online algorithm to calculate the importance of the nodes in your graph datasets in real-time. Discover detailed documentation and expert instructions to optimize your pagerank calculations.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# pagerank_online

**Online PageRank** is a streaming algorithm made for calculating
[PageRank](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank) in a graph
streaming scenario. Incremental local changes are introduced in the algorithm
to prevent users from recalculating PageRank values each time a change occurs in
the graph (something is added or deleted).

To make it as fast as possible, the online algorithm is only the approximation
of PageRank but carrying the same information - the likelihood of random walk
ending in a particular vertex. The work is based on "[Fast Incremental and
Personalized
PageRank](http://snap.stanford.edu/class/cs224w-readings/bahmani10pagerank.pdf)",
where authors are deeply focused on providing the streaming experience of a
highly popular graph algorithm.

Approximating PageRank is done simply by exploring random walks and calculating
the frequency of a node within all walks. `R` walks are sampled by using a
random walk with a stopping probability of `eps`.Therefore, on average, walks
would have a length of `1/eps`. Approximative PageRank is based on the formula
below:

```
RankApprox(v) = X_v / (n * R / eps)
```

Where `X_v` is the number of walks where the node `v` appears. The theorem
written in the paper explains that RankApprox(v) is sharply concentrated around
its expectation, which is Rank(v).

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-pagerank_online-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/pagerank_module/pagerank_online_module.cpp)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm  |
| **Implementation**  | C++        |
| **Graph direction** | directed   |
| **Edge weights**    | unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential |

## Procedures

Online PageRank should be used by executing the procedures in the following way:
1. Parameters and the context is set using the `set()` procedure.

2. To make the incremental flow, set the proper trigger using the `update()` function:

  ```cypher
  CREATE TRIGGER pagerank_trigger
  (BEFORE | AFTER) COMMIT
  EXECUTE CALL pagerank_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) 
  YIELD node, rank
  SET node.rank = rank;
  ```

3. Use the `get()` procedure to return the resulting values stored in the cache.
4. Finally, the `reset()` function resets the context and enables you to start new runs.

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `set()`

The procedure calculates PageRank for the nodes in the graph. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `walks_per_node: integer (default=10)` ➡ Number of sampled walks per node.
- `walk_stop_epsilon: double (default=0.1)` ➡ The probability of stopping when deriving
  the random walk. On average, it will create walks of length `1 /
  walk_stop_epsilon`.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which PageRank is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the probability that a random
  surfer will finish in a certain node by a random walk.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to calculate PageRank: 

```cypher
CALL pagerank_online.set(100, 0.2)
YIELD node, rank;
```

### `get()`

The `get()` procedure is used if the trigger has been set or a `set()` procedure
has been called, before adding changes to the graph.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which PageRank is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the probability that a random
  surfer will finish in a certain node by a random walk.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to get the PageRank values: 

```cypher
CALL pagerank_online.get()
YIELD node, rank
RETURN node, rank;
```

### `update()`

The procedure recalculates the values of the PageRank based on the recent
changes in the graph. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `created_vertices` ➡ Nodes that were created in the last transaction.
- `created_edges` ➡ Relationships created in a period from the last transaction.
- `deleted_vertices` ➡ Nodes deleted from the last transaction.
- `deleted_edges` ➡ Relationships deleted from the last transaction.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which PageRank is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the probability that a random
  surfer will finish in a certain node by a random walk.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to set a trigger to recalaculate the PageRank values
after changes to the graph:

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER pagerank_trigger
(BEFORE | AFTER) COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL pagerank_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges)
YIELD node, rank
SET node.rank = rank;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Set parameters </h3>} 

Use the following query to set parameters:

```cypher
CALL pagerank_online.set(100, 0.2) 
YIELD node, rank;
```

{<h3> Create a trigger </h3>} 

The following query creates a trigger which will update the values upon creating new data or deleting existing data: 

```
CREATE TRIGGER pagerank_trigger
BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL pagerank_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges)
YIELD node, rank
SET node.rank = rank;
```

{<h3> Add new data </h3>} 

New data is added to the database: 

![Input graph](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank_online/memgraph-pagerank-online.png)

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

As new data is added, the triggered `pagerank.update()` procedure calculates the values. 

{<h3> Get PageRank </h3>} 

Return the values using the following query:

```cypher
MATCH (node)
RETURN node.id AS node_id, node.rank AS rank;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+-----------+-----------+
| node_id   | rank      |
+-----------+-----------+
| 0         | 0.225225  |
| 1         | 0.225225  |
| 2         | 0.225225  |
| 3         | 0.0675676 |
| 4         | 0.0765766 |
| 5         | 0.0585586 |
| 6         | 0.121622  |
+-----------+-----------+
```

</Steps>

Commit message:

Update procedures in algo docs to include Subgraph as optional argument (#811)
* Add subgraph link

* Add subgraph link

* Fix styling

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank_online.mdx, after:

---
title: pagerank_online
description: Leverage Memgraph's pagerank_online algorithm to calculate the importance of the nodes in your graph datasets in real-time. Discover detailed documentation and expert instructions to optimize your pagerank calculations.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# pagerank_online

**Online PageRank** is a streaming algorithm made for calculating
[PageRank](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank) in a graph
streaming scenario. Incremental local changes are introduced in the algorithm
to prevent users from recalculating PageRank values each time a change occurs in
the graph (something is added or deleted).

To make it as fast as possible, the online algorithm is only the approximation
of PageRank but carrying the same information - the likelihood of random walk
ending in a particular vertex. The work is based on "[Fast Incremental and
Personalized
PageRank](http://snap.stanford.edu/class/cs224w-readings/bahmani10pagerank.pdf)",
where authors are deeply focused on providing the streaming experience of a
highly popular graph algorithm.

Approximating PageRank is done simply by exploring random walks and calculating
the frequency of a node within all walks. `R` walks are sampled by using a
random walk with a stopping probability of `eps`.Therefore, on average, walks
would have a length of `1/eps`. Approximative PageRank is based on the formula
below:

```
RankApprox(v) = X_v / (n * R / eps)
```

Where `X_v` is the number of walks where the node `v` appears. The theorem
written in the paper explains that RankApprox(v) is sharply concentrated around
its expectation, which is Rank(v).

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-pagerank_online-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/cpp/pagerank_module/pagerank_online_module.cpp)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | algorithm  |
| **Implementation**  | C++        |
| **Graph direction** | directed   |
| **Edge weights**    | unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential |

## Procedures

Online PageRank should be used by executing the procedures in the following way:
1. Parameters and the context is set using the `set()` procedure.

2. To make the incremental flow, set the proper trigger using the `update()` function:

  ```cypher
  CREATE TRIGGER pagerank_trigger
  (BEFORE | AFTER) COMMIT
  EXECUTE CALL pagerank_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges) 
  YIELD node, rank
  SET node.rank = rank;
  ```

3. Use the `get()` procedure to return the resulting values stored in the cache.
4. Finally, the `reset()` function resets the context and enables you to start new runs.

<Callout type="info">
You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).
</Callout>

### `set()`

The procedure calculates PageRank for the nodes in the graph. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.
- `walks_per_node: integer (default=10)` ➡ Number of sampled walks per node.
- `walk_stop_epsilon: double (default=0.1)` ➡ The probability of stopping when deriving
  the random walk. On average, it will create walks of length `1 /
  walk_stop_epsilon`.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which PageRank is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the probability that a random
  surfer will finish in a certain node by a random walk.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to calculate PageRank: 

```cypher
CALL pagerank_online.set(100, 0.2)
YIELD node, rank;
```

### `get()`

The `get()` procedure is used if the trigger has been set or a `set()` procedure
has been called, before adding changes to the graph.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which PageRank is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the probability that a random
  surfer will finish in a certain node by a random walk.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to get the PageRank values: 

```cypher
CALL pagerank_online.get()
YIELD node, rank
RETURN node, rank;
```

### `update()`

The procedure recalculates the values of the PageRank based on the recent
changes in the graph. 

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.
- `created_vertices` ➡ Nodes that were created in the last transaction.
- `created_edges` ➡ Relationships created in a period from the last transaction.
- `deleted_vertices` ➡ Nodes deleted from the last transaction.
- `deleted_edges` ➡ Relationships deleted from the last transaction.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `node` ➡ Node in the graph, for which PageRank is calculated.
- `rank` ➡ Normalized ranking of a node. Expresses the probability that a random
  surfer will finish in a certain node by a random walk.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Use the following query to set a trigger to recalaculate the PageRank values
after changes to the graph:

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER pagerank_trigger
(BEFORE | AFTER) COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL pagerank_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges)
YIELD node, rank
SET node.rank = rank;
```

## Example

<Steps>

{<h3> Set parameters </h3>} 

Use the following query to set parameters:

```cypher
CALL pagerank_online.set(100, 0.2) 
YIELD node, rank;
```

{<h3> Create a trigger </h3>} 

The following query creates a trigger which will update the values upon creating new data or deleting existing data: 

```
CREATE TRIGGER pagerank_trigger
BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL pagerank_online.update(createdVertices, createdEdges, deletedVertices, deletedEdges)
YIELD node, rank
SET node.rank = rank;
```

{<h3> Add new data </h3>} 

New data is added to the database: 

![Input graph](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/pagerank_online/memgraph-pagerank-online.png)

```cypher
MERGE (a:Node {id: 0}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 1}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 1}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 2}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 2}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 0}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 3}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 4}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 3}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 5}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
MERGE (a:Node {id: 4}) MERGE (b:Node {id: 6}) CREATE (a)-[:RELATION]->(b);
```

As new data is added, the triggered `pagerank.update()` procedure calculates the values. 

{<h3> Get PageRank </h3>} 

Return the values using the following query:

```cypher
MATCH (node)
RETURN node.id AS node_id, node.rank AS rank;
```

Results:

```plaintext
+-----------+-----------+
| node_id   | rank      |
+-----------+-----------+
| 0         | 0.225225  |
| 1         | 0.225225  |
| 2         | 0.225225  |
| 3         | 0.0675676 |
| 4         | 0.0765766 |
| 5         | 0.0585586 |
| 6         | 0.121622  |
+-----------+-----------+
```

</Steps>
