pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/temporal.mdx, before:

---
title: temporal
description: Use sophisticated manipulation, conversion and calculation procedures for date and time data types. 
---

# temporal



The `temporal` module enables more sophisticated manipulation, conversion, and calculation of date and time. These functions handle temporal (time-related) operations and offer extended capabilities compared to the [`date`](date.md) functions.

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-temporal-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/temporal.py)

| Trait               | Value                                                 |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | util  |
| **Implementation**  | C++        |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted/unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential |

## Procedures

### `format()`

Formats a temporal value.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `temporal: Any` ➡ temporal value (date, time, datetime, duration) to be formatted.
- `format: str` ➡ the wanted format.

:::info

The format parameter supports values defined under [Python strftime format codes](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes).

:::

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `formatted: str` ➡ received temporal value in the specified format.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

```cypher
CALL temporal.format(duration({minute: 127}), "%H:%M:%S") YIELD formatted RETURN formatted;
```

```plaintext
+-----------------------+
| formatted             |
+-----------------------+
| "02:07:00"            |
+-----------------------+
```

Commit message:

[main < ] Batch of improved query modules (#376)
* refactor

* qm

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/temporal.mdx, after:

---
title: temporal
description: Use sophisticated manipulation, conversion and calculation procedures for date and time data types. 
---

import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# temporal

The `temporal` module enables more sophisticated manipulation, conversion, and
calculation of date and time. These functions handle temporal (time-related)
operations and offer extended capabilities compared to the [`date`](date.md)
functions.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/temporal.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| **Module type**     | util                |
| **Implementation**  | C++                 |
| **Graph direction** | directed/undirected |
| **Edge weights**    | weighted/unweighted |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential          |

## Procedures

### `format()`

The procedure formats a temporal value.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `temporal: Any` ➡ A temporal value (date, time, datetime, duration) that needs to be formatted.
- `format: str` ➡ The wanted format. The parameter supports values defined under [Python strftime format codes](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-format-codes).

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `formatted: str` ➡ The temporal value in the specified format.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

To reformat a temporal values, use the following query:

```cypher
CALL temporal.format(duration({minute: 127}), "%H:%M:%S")
YIELD formatted
RETURN formatted;
```

Result:

```plaintext
+-----------------------+
| formatted             |
+-----------------------+
| "02:07:00"            |
+-----------------------+
```
