pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/xml_module.mdx, before:

---
title: xml_module
description: Load and parse XML data. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# xml_module

The XML module enhances graph database capabilities by providing support for
loading and parsing XML data.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/xml_module.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value      |
| ------------------- | ---------- |
| **Module type**     | util       |
| **Implementation**  | Python     |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential |

## Functions

<Callout type="info">

You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).

</Callout>

### `parse()`

Parses an XML string or file into a map. 

In XML file format, every element is represented as a map. For every element,
its children elements are represented as a key-value pair inside that map, the
key being `_children`, and the value an array of children elements. But, when
`simple` is `True`, the key of children elements is not `_children`, but rather
the name of the parent element. 

Consider a root element named `catalog`. When parsing this element, if `simple`
is `False`, the key-value pair of children elements will look like this:
`_children: [child_element_1, child_element_2, ....]`. But, when `simple` is
`True`, the key-value pair will look like this `_catalog: [child_element_1,
child_element_2, ....]`. Using simple mode makes nested XML elements accessible
via an element name prefixed with an `_`.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `xml_input: string` ➡ input XML string.
- `simple: bool (default = false)` ➡ configuration bool used for specifying whether simple mode should be used. [**Simple configuration explanation**](#simple-configuration-explanation).
- `path: string (default = "")` ➡ path to the XML file that needs to be parsed. If the path is not empty, the `xml_input` string is ignored, and only the file is parsed. 

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

The output of this function is a parsed XML map.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

**Parsing XML from string**

```cypher
WITH '<catalog><book id="1"><title>Book 1</title><author>Author 1</author><publication><year>2022</year><publisher>Publisher A</publisher></publication></book><book id="2"><title>Book 2</title><author>Author 2</author><publication><year>2023</year><publisher>Publisher B</publisher></publication></book></catalog>' AS xmlString
RETURN xml_module.parse(xmlString) AS value;
```

Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_children": [
      {
         "_children": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 1",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 1",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_children": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2022",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher A",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "1"
      },
      {
         "_children": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 2",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 2",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_children": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2023",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher B",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "2"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "catalog"
}
```

**Parsing with simple configuration**

```cypher
WITH '<catalog><book id="1"><title>Book 1</title><author>Author 1</author><publication><year>2022</year><publisher>Publisher A</publisher></publication></book><book id="2"><title>Book 2</title><author>Author 2</author><publication><year>2023</year><publisher>Publisher B</publisher></publication></book></catalog>' AS xmlString
RETURN xml_module.parse(xmlString, true) AS value;
```

Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_catalog": [
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 1",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 1",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2022",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher A",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "1"
      },
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 2",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 2",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2023",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher B",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "2"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "catalog"
}
```

**Parsing from a file, with simple configuration**

The following example shows how to parse this file:

```plaintext

file.xml

<catalog>
  <book id="1">
    <title>Book 1</title>
    <author>Author 1</author>
    <publication>
      <year>2022</year>
      <publisher>Publisher A</publisher>
    </publication>
  </book>
  <book id="2">
    <title>Book 2</title>
    <author>Author 2</author>
    <publication>
      <year>2023</year>
      <publisher>Publisher B</publisher>
    </publication>
  </book>
</catalog>
```

Cypher: 

```cypher
RETURN xml_module.parse("", true,"/home/demonstration/Documents/file.xml") AS value;
```

Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_catalog": [
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 1",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 1",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2022",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher A",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "1"
      },
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 2",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 2",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2023",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher B",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "2"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "catalog"
}
```

## Procedures

### `load()`

Loads and parses an XML file from a URL or a local file. Supports simple mode,
and XPath expressions. You can choose to execute the procedure in simple mode =>
[**Simple configuration explanation**](#simple-configuration-explanation).

This procedure supports the usage of XPath expressions. Since the module is
implemented in Python, XPath expressions should follow, and are limited to the
XPath syntax explained here [**XML python
docs**](https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html#xpath-support).
XPath implemented this way cannot use absolute paths, so one of these 3 prefixes
must be used to avoid errors: `. .. *`. The current node is the root node.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `xml_url: string` ➡ The input URL where the XML file is located.
- `simple: bool (default = false)` ➡ A bool used for specifying whether simple mode should be used.
- `path: string (default = "")` ➡ A path to the XML file that needs to be parsed. If the path is not empty, `xml_input` string is ignored, and only the file is parsed.
- `xpath: string (default = "")` ➡ XPath expression. If the expression is not empty, the result of the procedure is all elements satisfying the expression.
- `headers: Map (default = {})` ➡ A map of additional HTTP headers used when fetching a file from URL.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `output_map: Map` ➡ parsed XML map.

If the XPath expression is not empty, the output is all elements that satisfy the expression.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

This section shows the usage of the procedure on the folllowing [**XML
file**](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/note.xml)

**Parse an XML file from URL**

```cypher
WITH "https://www.w3schools.com/xml/note.xml" AS xmlUrl
CALL xml_module.load(xmlUrl, false, "", "", {}) YIELD output_map RETURN output_map;
```
Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_children": [
      {
         "_text": "Tove",
         "_type": "to"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Jani",
         "_type": "from"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Reminder",
         "_type": "heading"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Don't forget me this weekend!",
         "_type": "body"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "note"
}
```

**Parse with simple configuration**

```cypher
WITH "https://www.w3schools.com/xml/note.xml" AS xmlUrl
CALL xml_module.load(xmlUrl, true, "", "", {}) YIELD output_map RETURN output_map;
```
Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_note": [
      {
         "_text": "Tove",
         "_type": "to"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Jani",
         "_type": "from"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Reminder",
         "_type": "heading"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Don't forget me this weekend!",
         "_type": "body"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "note"
}
```

**Parse XML from a file**

Example of the file:

```plaintext

file.xml

<catalog>
  <book id="1">
    <title>Book 1</title>
    <author>Author 1</author>
    <publication>
      <year>2022</year>
      <publisher>Publisher A</publisher>
    </publication>
  </book>
  <book id="2">
    <title>Book 2</title>
    <author>Author 2</author>
    <publication>
      <year>2023</year>
      <publisher>Publisher B</publisher>
    </publication>
  </book>
</catalog>

```

Cypher:

```cypher
CALL xml_module.load("", true, "/home/demonstration/Documents/file.xml", "", {}) YIELD output_map RETURN output_map;
```

Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_catalog": [
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 1",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 1",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2022",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher A",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "1"
      },
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 2",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 2",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2023",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher B",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "2"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "catalog"
}
```

**Use XPath**

For the XPath demonstration, [cd_catalog.xml
file](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/cd_catalog.xml) will be used.

The XPath expression is going to be `".//CD[YEAR='1988']"`, which will return
all CD elements with attribute year equaling 1988. Note that XPath expressions
cannot be absolute paths because of the Python implementation of XPath, so `.`
is used as an XPath prefix for this example, meaning the search will start from
the current (root) element.

```cypher
WITH "https://www.w3schools.com/xml/cd_catalog.xml" AS xmlUrl
CALL xml_module.load(xmlUrl, false, "", ".//CD[YEAR='1988']", {}) YIELD output_map RETURN output_map;
```

Result:

```plaintext

{
   "_children": [
      {
         "_text": "Hide your heart",
         "_type": "TITLE"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Bonnie Tyler",
         "_type": "ARTIST"
      },
      {
         "_text": "UK",
         "_type": "COUNTRY"
      },
      {
         "_text": "CBS Records",
         "_type": "COMPANY"
      },
      {
         "_text": "9.90",
         "_type": "PRICE"
      },
      {
         "_text": "1988",
         "_type": "YEAR"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "CD"
}

```

```plaintext

{
   "_children": [
      {
         "_text": "Stop",
         "_type": "TITLE"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Sam Brown",
         "_type": "ARTIST"
      },
      {
         "_text": "UK",
         "_type": "COUNTRY"
      },
      {
         "_text": "A and M",
         "_type": "COMPANY"
      },
      {
         "_text": "8.90",
         "_type": "PRICE"
      },
      {
         "_text": "1988",
         "_type": "YEAR"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "CD"
}

```

Commit message:

Update procedures in algo docs to include Subgraph as optional argument (#811)
* Add subgraph link

* Add subgraph link

* Fix styling

pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/xml_module.mdx, after:

---
title: xml_module
description: Load and parse XML data. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# xml_module

The XML module enhances graph database capabilities by providing support for
loading and parsing XML data.

<Cards>
  <Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Source code"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/xml_module.py"
  />
</Cards>

| Trait               | Value      |
| ------------------- | ---------- |
| **Module type**     | util       |
| **Implementation**  | Python     |
| **Parallelism**     | sequential |

## Functions

<Callout type="info">

You can execute this algorithm on [graph projections, subgraphs or portions of the graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph).

</Callout>

### `parse()`

Parses an XML string or file into a map. 

In XML file format, every element is represented as a map. For every element,
its children elements are represented as a key-value pair inside that map, the
key being `_children`, and the value an array of children elements. But, when
`simple` is `True`, the key of children elements is not `_children`, but rather
the name of the parent element. 

Consider a root element named `catalog`. When parsing this element, if `simple`
is `False`, the key-value pair of children elements will look like this:
`_children: [child_element_1, child_element_2, ....]`. But, when `simple` is
`True`, the key-value pair will look like this `_catalog: [child_element_1,
child_element_2, ....]`. Using simple mode makes nested XML elements accessible
via an element name prefixed with an `_`.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.
- `xml_input: string` ➡ input XML string.
- `simple: bool (default = false)` ➡ configuration bool used for specifying whether simple mode should be used. [**Simple configuration explanation**](#simple-configuration-explanation).
- `path: string (default = "")` ➡ path to the XML file that needs to be parsed. If the path is not empty, the `xml_input` string is ignored, and only the file is parsed. 

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

The output of this function is a parsed XML map.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

**Parsing XML from string**

```cypher
WITH '<catalog><book id="1"><title>Book 1</title><author>Author 1</author><publication><year>2022</year><publisher>Publisher A</publisher></publication></book><book id="2"><title>Book 2</title><author>Author 2</author><publication><year>2023</year><publisher>Publisher B</publisher></publication></book></catalog>' AS xmlString
RETURN xml_module.parse(xmlString) AS value;
```

Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_children": [
      {
         "_children": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 1",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 1",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_children": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2022",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher A",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "1"
      },
      {
         "_children": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 2",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 2",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_children": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2023",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher B",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "2"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "catalog"
}
```

**Parsing with simple configuration**

```cypher
WITH '<catalog><book id="1"><title>Book 1</title><author>Author 1</author><publication><year>2022</year><publisher>Publisher A</publisher></publication></book><book id="2"><title>Book 2</title><author>Author 2</author><publication><year>2023</year><publisher>Publisher B</publisher></publication></book></catalog>' AS xmlString
RETURN xml_module.parse(xmlString, true) AS value;
```

Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_catalog": [
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 1",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 1",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2022",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher A",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "1"
      },
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 2",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 2",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2023",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher B",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "2"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "catalog"
}
```

**Parsing from a file, with simple configuration**

The following example shows how to parse this file:

```plaintext

file.xml

<catalog>
  <book id="1">
    <title>Book 1</title>
    <author>Author 1</author>
    <publication>
      <year>2022</year>
      <publisher>Publisher A</publisher>
    </publication>
  </book>
  <book id="2">
    <title>Book 2</title>
    <author>Author 2</author>
    <publication>
      <year>2023</year>
      <publisher>Publisher B</publisher>
    </publication>
  </book>
</catalog>
```

Cypher: 

```cypher
RETURN xml_module.parse("", true,"/home/demonstration/Documents/file.xml") AS value;
```

Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_catalog": [
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 1",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 1",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2022",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher A",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "1"
      },
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 2",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 2",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2023",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher B",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "2"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "catalog"
}
```

## Procedures

### `load()`

Loads and parses an XML file from a URL or a local file. Supports simple mode,
and XPath expressions. You can choose to execute the procedure in simple mode =>
[**Simple configuration explanation**](#simple-configuration-explanation).

This procedure supports the usage of XPath expressions. Since the module is
implemented in Python, XPath expressions should follow, and are limited to the
XPath syntax explained here [**XML python
docs**](https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.etree.elementtree.html#xpath-support).
XPath implemented this way cannot use absolute paths, so one of these 3 prefixes
must be used to avoid errors: `. .. *`. The current node is the root node.

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

- `subgraph: Graph` (**OPTIONAL**) ➡ A specific subgraph, which is an [object of type Graph](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms#run-procedures-on-subgraph) returned by the `project()` function, on which the algorithm is run.
- `xml_url: string` ➡ The input URL where the XML file is located.
- `simple: bool (default = false)` ➡ A bool used for specifying whether simple mode should be used.
- `path: string (default = "")` ➡ A path to the XML file that needs to be parsed. If the path is not empty, `xml_input` string is ignored, and only the file is parsed.
- `xpath: string (default = "")` ➡ XPath expression. If the expression is not empty, the result of the procedure is all elements satisfying the expression.
- `headers: Map (default = {})` ➡ A map of additional HTTP headers used when fetching a file from URL.

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `output_map: Map` ➡ parsed XML map.

If the XPath expression is not empty, the output is all elements that satisfy the expression.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

This section shows the usage of the procedure on the folllowing [**XML
file**](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/note.xml)

**Parse an XML file from URL**

```cypher
WITH "https://www.w3schools.com/xml/note.xml" AS xmlUrl
CALL xml_module.load(xmlUrl, false, "", "", {}) YIELD output_map RETURN output_map;
```
Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_children": [
      {
         "_text": "Tove",
         "_type": "to"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Jani",
         "_type": "from"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Reminder",
         "_type": "heading"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Don't forget me this weekend!",
         "_type": "body"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "note"
}
```

**Parse with simple configuration**

```cypher
WITH "https://www.w3schools.com/xml/note.xml" AS xmlUrl
CALL xml_module.load(xmlUrl, true, "", "", {}) YIELD output_map RETURN output_map;
```
Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_note": [
      {
         "_text": "Tove",
         "_type": "to"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Jani",
         "_type": "from"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Reminder",
         "_type": "heading"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Don't forget me this weekend!",
         "_type": "body"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "note"
}
```

**Parse XML from a file**

Example of the file:

```plaintext

file.xml

<catalog>
  <book id="1">
    <title>Book 1</title>
    <author>Author 1</author>
    <publication>
      <year>2022</year>
      <publisher>Publisher A</publisher>
    </publication>
  </book>
  <book id="2">
    <title>Book 2</title>
    <author>Author 2</author>
    <publication>
      <year>2023</year>
      <publisher>Publisher B</publisher>
    </publication>
  </book>
</catalog>

```

Cypher:

```cypher
CALL xml_module.load("", true, "/home/demonstration/Documents/file.xml", "", {}) YIELD output_map RETURN output_map;
```

Output:

```plaintext
{
   "_catalog": [
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 1",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 1",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2022",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher A",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "1"
      },
      {
         "_book": [
            {
               "_text": "Book 2",
               "_type": "title"
            },
            {
               "_text": "Author 2",
               "_type": "author"
            },
            {
               "_publication": [
                  {
                     "_text": "2023",
                     "_type": "year"
                  },
                  {
                     "_text": "Publisher B",
                     "_type": "publisher"
                  }
               ],
               "_type": "publication"
            }
         ],
         "_type": "book",
         "id": "2"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "catalog"
}
```

**Use XPath**

For the XPath demonstration, [cd_catalog.xml
file](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/cd_catalog.xml) will be used.

The XPath expression is going to be `".//CD[YEAR='1988']"`, which will return
all CD elements with attribute year equaling 1988. Note that XPath expressions
cannot be absolute paths because of the Python implementation of XPath, so `.`
is used as an XPath prefix for this example, meaning the search will start from
the current (root) element.

```cypher
WITH "https://www.w3schools.com/xml/cd_catalog.xml" AS xmlUrl
CALL xml_module.load(xmlUrl, false, "", ".//CD[YEAR='1988']", {}) YIELD output_map RETURN output_map;
```

Result:

```plaintext

{
   "_children": [
      {
         "_text": "Hide your heart",
         "_type": "TITLE"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Bonnie Tyler",
         "_type": "ARTIST"
      },
      {
         "_text": "UK",
         "_type": "COUNTRY"
      },
      {
         "_text": "CBS Records",
         "_type": "COMPANY"
      },
      {
         "_text": "9.90",
         "_type": "PRICE"
      },
      {
         "_text": "1988",
         "_type": "YEAR"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "CD"
}

```

```plaintext

{
   "_children": [
      {
         "_text": "Stop",
         "_type": "TITLE"
      },
      {
         "_text": "Sam Brown",
         "_type": "ARTIST"
      },
      {
         "_text": "UK",
         "_type": "COUNTRY"
      },
      {
         "_text": "A and M",
         "_type": "COMPANY"
      },
      {
         "_text": "8.90",
         "_type": "PRICE"
      },
      {
         "_text": "1988",
         "_type": "YEAR"
      }
   ],
   "_type": "CD"
}

```
