pages/database-management/backup-and-restore.mdx, before:

---
title: Backup and restore
description: Learn how to create a backup to secure your data and restore Memgraph database from a backup. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Backup and restore

Memgraph uses snapshots and WAL to ensure the [durability](/fundamentals/data-durability) of the stored data.
Learn how to safely backup and restore your data.

## Create backup

Follow these steps to create database backup:

<Steps>

{<h3>Create a snapshot</h3>}

  If necessary, create a snapshot of the current database state by running the
  following query in `mgconsole` or Memgraph Lab:

  ```cypher
  CREATE SNAPSHOT;
  ```
  The snapshot is saved in the `snapshots` directory of the data directory
  (`/var/lib/memgraph`).

{<h3>Lock the data directory</h3>}

  Durability files are deleted when an event is triggered, for example, exceeding
  the maximum number of snapshots.

  To disable this behavior, run the following query in `mgconsole` or Memgraph
  Lab:

  ```cypher
  LOCK DATA DIRECTORY;
  ```

{<h3>Copy files</h3>}

  Copy snapshot files (from the `snapshots` directory) and any additional WAL
  files (from the `wal` directory) to a backup location.

  If you've just created a snapshot file there is no need to backup WAL files. 

  To copy the snapshot files from the Docker container first check the container
  ID by running `docker ps` then run the following command:

   ```plaintext
    docker cp  <CONTAINER ID>:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots/<snapshot_file> <snapshot_file>
   ```

{<h3>Unlock the data directory</h3>}

  Run the following query in `mgconsole` or Memgraph Lab to unlock the
  directory:

  ```cypher
  UNLOCK DATA DIRECTORY;
  ```

  Memgraph will delete the files which should have been deleted before locking and
  allow any future deletion of the durability files.

</Steps>

## Restore data

Follow these steps to restore data from a backup:

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>

<Tab>

<Steps>

{<h3>Empty the `wal` directory</h3>}

  If you want to restore data only from the snapshot file, ensure that the
  `wal` directory is empty:

     1. Find the container ID using a `docker ps` command, then enter the container using:

      ```
      docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID bash
      ```
     2. Position yourself in the `/var/lib/memgraph/wal` directory and `rm *`

{<h3>Stop the instance</h3>}

  Run the following command
  
  ```
  docker stop CONTAINER_ID
  ```

{<h3>Start the instance</h3>}

  You can start the instance with the backed up files in two ways.

  {<h4>Option 1</h4>}

  You can start the instance by adding a `-v
  ~/snapshots:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots` flag to the `docker run` command,
  where the `~/snapshots` represents a path to the location of the directory
  with the back-up snapshot, for example: 

  ```
  docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -v ~/snapshots:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots memgraph/memgraph
  ```

  If you want to copy both WAL and snapshot files start the instance by adding
  a `-v ~/snapshots:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots -v ~/wal:/var/lib/memgraph/wal`
  flags to the `docker run` command, where the `~/snapshots` represents a path
  to the location of the backed-up snapshot directory, and `~/wal` represents a
  path to the location of the backed-up wal directory for example: 

  ```
  docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -v ~/snapshots:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots -v ~/wal:/var/lib/memgraph/wal memgraph/memgraph
  ```

  {<h4>Option 2</h4>}

  The other option is to copy the backed-up snapshot file into the `snapshots`
  directory after creating the container and start the database. So the commands
  should look like this: 

  ```
  docker create -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -v `snapshots`:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots --name memgraphDB memgraph/memgraph
  tar -cf - sample_snapshot_file | docker cp -a - memgraphDB:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots
  ```
  The `sample_snapshot_file` is the snapshot file you want to use to restore the
  data. Due to the nature of Docker file ownership, you need to use `tar` to
  copy the file as STDIN into the non-running container. It will allow you to
  change the ownership of the file to the `memgraph` user inside the container.

  After that, start the database with:
  ```
  docker start -a memgraphDB
  ```
  The `-a` flag is used to attach to the container's output so you can see the logs.

  Once memgraph is started, change the snapshot directory ownership to the `memgraph` user by running the following command:
  ```
  docker exec -it -u 0 memgraphDB bash -c "chown memgraph:memgraph /var/lib/memgraph/snasphots"
  ```
  Otherwise, Memgraph will not be able to write the future snapshot files and will fail.

</Steps>
</Tab>

<Tab>

<Steps>

{<h3>Copy the durability files</h3>}

Before running an instance, copy the backed up snapshot into the `snapshots`
directory, and optionally, copy the backed-up WAL files into the `wal`
directory.

If you are restoring data only from the snapshot file, ensure that the file you
   want to use to restore the data is the only snapshot file in the `snapshots`
   directory and that the `wal` directory is empty. 
   
If you are restoring data
   from both the snapshot and WAL files, ensure they are the only files in the
   `snapshot` and `wal` directories. 

{<h3>Start the database</h3>}

</Steps>

</Tab>
</Tabs>


## Database dump

The database dump contains a record of the database state in the form of Cypher
queries. It’s equivalent to the SQL dump in relational DBs. 
Database dump preserves nodes, relationships, indexes, constraints and triggers.

You can run the queries constituting the dump to recreate the state of the DB as
it was at the time of the dump.

To dump the Memgraph DB, run the following query:

```opencypher
DUMP DATABASE;
```

If you are using Memgraph Lab, you can dump the database, that is, the queries
to recreate it, to a CYPHERL file in the `Import & Export` section of the Lab.

## Storage modes

Memgraph has the option to work in `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`,
`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` or `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` [storage
modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage.md).

Memgraph always starts in the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode in which it creates
periodic snapshots and write-ahead logging as durability mechanisms, and also
enables creating manual snapshots.

In the `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode, Memgraph offers no periodic snapshots and
write-ahead logging. Users can create a snapshot with the `CREATE SNAPSHOT;`
Cypher query. During the process of snapshot creation, other transactions will
be prevented from starting until the snapshot creation is completed.

In the `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` mode, durability is supported by RocksDB since it
keeps its own
[WAL](https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb/wiki/Write-Ahead-Log-%28WAL%29) files.
Memgraph persists the metadata used in the implementation of the on-disk
storage.

Commit message:

Recover/show snapshots and cron/perioduic snapshots

pages/database-management/backup-and-restore.mdx, after:

---
title: Backup and restore
description: Learn how to create a backup to secure your data and restore Memgraph database from a backup. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Backup and restore

Memgraph uses snapshots and WAL to ensure the [durability](/fundamentals/data-durability) of the stored data.
Learn how to safely backup and restore your data.

## Create backup

Follow these steps to create database backup:

<Steps>

{<h3>Create a snapshot</h3>}

  If necessary, create a snapshot of the current database state by running the
  following query in `mgconsole` or Memgraph Lab:

  ```cypher
  CREATE SNAPSHOT;
  ```
  The snapshot is saved in the `snapshots` directory of the data directory
  (`/var/lib/memgraph`).

{<h3>Lock the data directory</h3>}

  Durability files are deleted when an event is triggered, for example, exceeding
  the maximum number of snapshots.

  To disable this behavior, run the following query in `mgconsole` or Memgraph
  Lab:

  ```cypher
  LOCK DATA DIRECTORY;
  ```

{<h3>Copy files</h3>}

  Copy snapshot files (from the `snapshots` directory) and any additional WAL
  files (from the `wal` directory) to a backup location.

  If you've just created a snapshot file there is no need to backup WAL files. 

  To copy the snapshot files from the Docker container first check the container
  ID by running `docker ps` then run the following command:

   ```plaintext
    docker cp  <CONTAINER ID>:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots/<snapshot_file> <snapshot_file>
   ```

{<h3>Unlock the data directory</h3>}

  Run the following query in `mgconsole` or Memgraph Lab to unlock the
  directory:

  ```cypher
  UNLOCK DATA DIRECTORY;
  ```

  Memgraph will delete the files which should have been deleted before locking and
  allow any future deletion of the durability files.

</Steps>

## Restore data

Issue the following command from an already running Memgraph instance:

```
RECOVER SNAPSHOT /path/to/snapshot [FORCE];
```

The query will try to copy the defined file into the local data directory and apply the snapshot. It is advisable to define an absolute file path; a relative path would have to be in relation to the memgraph execution path.
Before modifying the local data directory, all WALs and snapshots will be moved to a hidden directorry: .old_*time-since-epoch*
In case the instance is not freshly started, the query needs to contain the FORCE flag. This will clear all data before applying the snapshot.

In order to query the snapshots currently present in the local data directory, execute the query:

```
SHOW SNAPSHOTS;
```

Its results contain: path to the file, the logical timestamp, physical timestamp and file size.
In case the periodic snapshot background job is active, the first element in the results will define the the time at which the snapshots will be created.

If you are using Memgraph pre v2.22, follow these steps to restore data from a backup:

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Linux']}>

<Tab>

<Steps>

{<h3>Empty the `wal` directory</h3>}

  If you want to restore data only from the snapshot file, ensure that the
  `wal` directory is empty:

     1. Find the container ID using a `docker ps` command, then enter the container using:

      ```
      docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID bash
      ```
     2. Position yourself in the `/var/lib/memgraph/wal` directory and `rm *`

{<h3>Stop the instance</h3>}

  Run the following command
  
  ```
  docker stop CONTAINER_ID
  ```

{<h3>Start the instance</h3>}

  You can start the instance with the backed up files in two ways.

  {<h4>Option 1</h4>}

  You can start the instance by adding a `-v
  ~/snapshots:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots` flag to the `docker run` command,
  where the `~/snapshots` represents a path to the location of the directory
  with the back-up snapshot, for example: 

  ```
  docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -v ~/snapshots:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots memgraph/memgraph
  ```

  If you want to copy both WAL and snapshot files start the instance by adding
  a `-v ~/snapshots:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots -v ~/wal:/var/lib/memgraph/wal`
  flags to the `docker run` command, where the `~/snapshots` represents a path
  to the location of the backed-up snapshot directory, and `~/wal` represents a
  path to the location of the backed-up wal directory for example: 

  ```
  docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -v ~/snapshots:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots -v ~/wal:/var/lib/memgraph/wal memgraph/memgraph
  ```

  {<h4>Option 2</h4>}

  The other option is to copy the backed-up snapshot file into the `snapshots`
  directory after creating the container and start the database. So the commands
  should look like this: 

  ```
  docker create -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -v `snapshots`:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots --name memgraphDB memgraph/memgraph
  tar -cf - sample_snapshot_file | docker cp -a - memgraphDB:/var/lib/memgraph/snapshots
  ```
  The `sample_snapshot_file` is the snapshot file you want to use to restore the
  data. Due to the nature of Docker file ownership, you need to use `tar` to
  copy the file as STDIN into the non-running container. It will allow you to
  change the ownership of the file to the `memgraph` user inside the container.

  After that, start the database with:
  ```
  docker start -a memgraphDB
  ```
  The `-a` flag is used to attach to the container's output so you can see the logs.

  Once memgraph is started, change the snapshot directory ownership to the `memgraph` user by running the following command:
  ```
  docker exec -it -u 0 memgraphDB bash -c "chown memgraph:memgraph /var/lib/memgraph/snasphots"
  ```
  Otherwise, Memgraph will not be able to write the future snapshot files and will fail.

</Steps>
</Tab>

<Tab>

<Steps>

{<h3>Copy the durability files</h3>}

Before running an instance, copy the backed up snapshot into the `snapshots`
directory, and optionally, copy the backed-up WAL files into the `wal`
directory.

If you are restoring data only from the snapshot file, ensure that the file you
   want to use to restore the data is the only snapshot file in the `snapshots`
   directory and that the `wal` directory is empty. 
   
If you are restoring data
   from both the snapshot and WAL files, ensure they are the only files in the
   `snapshot` and `wal` directories. 

{<h3>Start the database</h3>}

</Steps>

</Tab>
</Tabs>


## Database dump

The database dump contains a record of the database state in the form of Cypher
queries. It’s equivalent to the SQL dump in relational DBs. 
Database dump preserves nodes, relationships, indexes, constraints and triggers.

You can run the queries constituting the dump to recreate the state of the DB as
it was at the time of the dump.

To dump the Memgraph DB, run the following query:

```opencypher
DUMP DATABASE;
```

If you are using Memgraph Lab, you can dump the database, that is, the queries
to recreate it, to a CYPHERL file in the `Import & Export` section of the Lab.

## Storage modes

Memgraph has the option to work in `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`,
`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` or `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` [storage
modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage.md).

Memgraph always starts in the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode in which it creates
periodic snapshots and write-ahead logging as durability mechanisms, and also
enables creating manual snapshots.

In the `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode, Memgraph offers no periodic snapshots and
write-ahead logging. Users can create a snapshot with the `CREATE SNAPSHOT;`
Cypher query. During the process of snapshot creation, other transactions will
be prevented from starting until the snapshot creation is completed.

In the `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` mode, durability is supported by RocksDB since it
keeps its own
[WAL](https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb/wiki/Write-Ahead-Log-%28WAL%29) files.
Memgraph persists the metadata used in the implementation of the on-disk
storage.
