pages/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise.mdx, before:

---
title: Enabling Memgraph Enterprise
description: Learn how to enable Memgraph Enterprise and leverage its advanced capabilities to scale and optimize your graph computing tasks. Find out more in our documentation and pricing pages. 
---

#  Enabling Memgraph Enterprise

The following Memgraph features are only available in Enterprise Edition:

- [Audit log](/database-management/logs#audit-log-enterprise)
- [Auth system integrations](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations) and [Single Sign-On (SSO)](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations#single-sign-on)
- [CRON snapshot scheduling](/fundamentals/data-durability#periodic-snapshots)
- [Hiding sensitive information](/database-management/logs#hiding-passwords-enterprise)
- [SAML integration](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations#saml)
- [OIDC integration](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations#openid-connect-oidc)
- [LDAP integration](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations#ldap)
- [Monitoring via HTTP server](/database-management/monitoring#metrics-tracking-via-http-server-enterprise-edition)
- [Multi-tenancy](/database-management/multi-tenancy)
- [Role-based access control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control)
- [Label-based access control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control#label-based-access-control)
- [High availability](/clustering/high-availability) and [automatic failover](/clustering/high-availability#failover)
- [Time to live](/querying/time-to-live)
- [Query sharing](/data-visualization/user-manual/query-sharing) in Memgraph Lab

They are present in the same binary but protected by a license key.

If you're interested in the Memgraph Enterprise Trial, you need to fill out the
following [form](https://memgraph.com/enterprise-trial) where one of the fields
is the organization name.

Whether you bought Memgraph Enterprise or requested a trial, you will receive a
file with the values you need to set the `organization.name` and the
`enterprise.license` configuration values to.

If you want to enable the Enterprise Edition on startup, [set the configuration
flags](/configuration/configuration-settings#changing-configuration)  or
[environment
variables](/database-management/configuration#environment-variables) to the
correct values. 

If you are already running Memgraph Community Edition, these configuration flags
can also be adjusted [during
runtime](/configuration/configuration-settings#during-runtime), or you can run
the following queries to set the values:

```
SET DATABASE SETTING 'organization.name' TO 'Organization';
SET DATABASE SETTING 'enterprise.license' TO 'License';
```

To check the set values run: 

```opencypher
SHOW DATABASE SETTING 'organization.name';
SHOW DATABASE SETTING 'enterprise.license';
```

or:

```opencypher
SHOW DATABASE SETTINGS;
```

## Upgrading or downgrading the license

Memgraph licenses are issued based on the maximum unique data stored. So, if you
get a 1TB license, you can store 1TB of data. When you reach that capacity you
will no longer be able to run `write` queries, only `read` and `delete` queries.
That means it is possible to analyze the existing data but new data can no
longer be added until you upgrade or free storage by deleting some of the data.

Upon upgrading the license by entering a new license key the `write` queries
will be enabled.

To check the used storage, run `SHOW STORAGE INFO;`.

## License key expiry

Once the license key expires, the enterprise features will be disabled, but the
data stored in the database will remain intact. You will still be able to add
more data, but any enterprise features that require specific actions will no
longer function. For example, you will not be able to create any new databases.

Commit message:

Add more info to enterprise page

pages/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise.mdx, after:

---
title: Enabling Memgraph Enterprise
description: Learn how to enable Memgraph Enterprise and leverage its advanced capabilities to scale and optimize your graph computing tasks. Find out more in our documentation and pricing pages. 
---

#  Enabling Memgraph Enterprise

The following Memgraph features are only available in Enterprise Edition:

- [Audit log](/database-management/logs#audit-log-enterprise)
- [Auth system integrations](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations) and [Single Sign-On (SSO)](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations#single-sign-on)
- [CRON snapshot scheduling](/fundamentals/data-durability#periodic-snapshots)
- [Hiding sensitive information](/database-management/logs#hiding-passwords-enterprise)
- [SAML integration](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations#saml)
- [OIDC integration](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations#openid-connect-oidc)
- [LDAP integration](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/auth-system-integrations#ldap)
- [Monitoring via HTTP server](/database-management/monitoring#metrics-tracking-via-http-server-enterprise-edition)
- [Multi-tenancy](/database-management/multi-tenancy)
- [Role-based access control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control)
- [Label-based access control](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization/role-based-access-control#label-based-access-control)
- [High availability](/clustering/high-availability) and [automatic failover](/clustering/high-availability#failover)
- [Time to live](/querying/time-to-live)
- [Query sharing](/data-visualization/user-manual/query-sharing) in Memgraph Lab

They are present in the same binary but protected by a license key.

If you're interested in the Memgraph Enterprise Trial, you need to fill out the
following [form](https://memgraph.com/enterprise-trial) where one of the fields
is the organization name.

Whether you bought Memgraph Enterprise or requested a trial, you will receive a
file with the values you need to set the `organization.name` and the
`enterprise.license` configuration values to.

If you want to enable the Enterprise Edition on startup, [set the configuration
flags](/configuration/configuration-settings#changing-configuration)  or
[environment
variables](/database-management/configuration#environment-variables) to the
correct values. 

If you are already running Memgraph Community Edition, these configuration flags
can also be adjusted [during
runtime](/configuration/configuration-settings#during-runtime), or you can run
the following queries to set the values:

```
SET DATABASE SETTING 'organization.name' TO 'Organization';
SET DATABASE SETTING 'enterprise.license' TO 'License';
```

To check the set values run: 

```opencypher
SHOW DATABASE SETTING 'organization.name';
SHOW DATABASE SETTING 'enterprise.license';
```

or:

```opencypher
SHOW DATABASE SETTINGS;
```

To get all the information about the Memgraph Enterprise License that was
injected into the system, run:

```cypher
SHOW LICENSE INFO;
```

## Upgrading or downgrading the license

Memgraph licenses are issued based on the maximum unique data stored. So, if you
get a 1TB license, you can store 1TB of data. When you reach that capacity you
will no longer be able to run `write` queries, only `read` and `delete` queries.
That means it is possible to analyze the existing data but new data can no
longer be added until you upgrade or free storage by deleting some of the data.

Upon upgrading the license by entering a new license key the `write` queries
will be enabled.

To check the used storage, run `SHOW STORAGE INFO;`.

## License key expiry

Once the license key expires, the enterprise features will be disabled, but the
data stored in the database will remain intact. You will still be able to add
more data, but any enterprise features that require specific actions will no
longer function. For example, you will not be able to create any new databases.
