pages/database-management/experimental-features.mdx, before:

---
title: Experimental features
description: Experimental features in Memgraph represent the forefront of our innovation, offering cutting-edge functionality as we continuously enhance our product. While these features are still evolving and may experience occasional instability, our dedicated support team is ready to assist you promptly with any challenges, ensuring a seamless experience.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'

# Experimental features

The following features are currently in the experimental phase in Memgraph:

- [Text search](#text-search)

These features are actively being developed and may change or be removed in
future releases. Use them with caution in production environments and only if
you thoroughly understand their implications and are prepared for potential API
changes, data loss, service interruption, or data inconsistency. It is highly
encouraged to thoroughly test the experimental features in your environment.

To use experimental features in Memgraph, you first need to [enable
them](#enabling-experimental-features). In case you experience issues or want to
provide feedback, please [contact us](#feedback-and-support).

## Enabling experimental features

To enable an experimental feature in Memgraph, set `--experimental-enabled` flag
to the appropriate value. For example, to run Memgraph in Docker container with the text
search feature, run the following command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 memgraph/memgraph --experimental-enabled=text-search
```

If you already have a Memgraph instance with an experimental feature enabled,
and you want to add another one, you will need to restart Memgraph. Ensure that
all the necessary flags are enabled during the restart.

Changing the configuration settings depends on the way you are using Memgraph,
so please refer to the [configuration
docs](/database-management/configuration#changing-configuration) for more
information.

## Experimental features list

### Text Search
- **Description**: Enables finding nodes based on property values within
  Memgraph, supporting both literal and regex searches, and the concept of
  aggregation. It is not guaranteed to work correctly in use cases involving
  concurrent transactions and replication.
- **Status**: Early experimental. Provides text search functionalities but is not
  guaranteed to work correctly in use cases involving concurrent transactions
  and replication. There are no short-term plans to improve text-search
  capabilities. If you are interested in improvements, please contact us on
  [Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph).
- **Usage**: Enable the feature using the flag
  `--experimental-enabled=text-search`.
- **Documentation**: For more details, check the [text search
  docs](/querying/text-search).


<CommunityLinks/>

Commit message:

Add warning for experimental features

pages/database-management/experimental-features.mdx, after:

---
title: Experimental features
description: Experimental features in Memgraph represent the forefront of our innovation, offering cutting-edge functionality as we continuously enhance our product. While these features are still evolving and may experience occasional instability, our dedicated support team is ready to assist you promptly with any challenges, ensuring a seamless experience.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'

# Experimental features

The following features are currently in the experimental phase in Memgraph:

- [Text search](#text-search)

These features are actively being developed and may change or be removed in
future releases. Use them with caution in production environments and only if
you thoroughly understand their implications and are prepared for potential API
changes, data loss, service interruption, or data inconsistency. It is highly
encouraged to thoroughly test the experimental features in your environment.

To use experimental features in Memgraph, you first need to [enable
them](#enabling-experimental-features). In case you experience issues or want to
provide feedback, please [contact us](#feedback-and-support).

<Callout type="warning">
If you plan to try out an experimental feature, make sure to start a fresh
instance and then load your data. Snapshots and WALs created with version
`vX.Y.Z` without the experimental flag are currently incompatible with the same
version `vX.Y.Z` when the experimental flag is enabled.
</Callout>

## Enabling experimental features

To enable an experimental feature in Memgraph, set `--experimental-enabled` flag
to the appropriate value. For example, to run Memgraph in Docker container with the text
search feature, run the following command:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 memgraph/memgraph --experimental-enabled=text-search
```

If you already have a Memgraph instance with an experimental feature enabled,
and you want to add another one, you will need to restart Memgraph. Ensure that
all the necessary flags are enabled during the restart.

Changing the configuration settings depends on the way you are using Memgraph,
so please refer to the [configuration
docs](/database-management/configuration#changing-configuration) for more
information.

## Experimental features list

### Text Search
- **Description**: Enables finding nodes based on property values within
  Memgraph, supporting both literal and regex searches, and the concept of
  aggregation. It is not guaranteed to work correctly in use cases involving
  concurrent transactions and replication.
- **Status**: Early experimental. Provides text search functionalities but is not
  guaranteed to work correctly in use cases involving concurrent transactions
  and replication. There are no short-term plans to improve text-search
  capabilities. If you are interested in improvements, please contact us on
  [Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph).
- **Usage**: Enable the feature using the flag
  `--experimental-enabled=text-search`.
- **Documentation**: For more details, check the [text search
  docs](/querying/text-search).


<CommunityLinks/>
