pages/database-management/logs.mdx, before:

---
title: Logs
description: Discover how to make the most of logs for monitoring and troubleshooting purposes. Explore the documentation page for Memgraph and harness the power of log management.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Logs

The default location of logs is inside the `/var/log/memgraph/` directory. That
location can be configured using the `--log-file` [configuration
flag](/database-management/configuration#other).


Memgraph tracks logs at various levels: TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR,
CRITICAL. By default, it is using the WARNING level, but you can change the
level using the [`--log-level`](/database-management/configuration#other)
configuration flag or [during
runtime](/database-management/configuration#change-configuration-settings-during-runtime) using the `SET
DATABASE SETTING "log.level" TO "TRACE";`

The configuration set during runtime will be applied only for that session.

You can check the log level by running `SHOW DATABASE SETTING "log.level";` query.

To access the logs from the Memgraph Lab interface, make sure to expose the port
7444 when starting Memgraph with Docker. 

## Access logs

If you installed Memgraph with Linux, logs can be found in the
`/var/log/memgraph` directory.

If you installed Memgraph using Docker, the easiest way to access the logs is by
having a [named volume](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) on the
`/var/log/memgraph` directory and checking its content. If you're not using a
named volume, here are the steps to access the logs within the running Docker
container:

<Steps>

    ### Find container ID
    
    Open a new terminal and find the `CONTAINER_ID` of the Memgraph Docker
    container:

    ```plaintext
    docker ps
    ```

    ### Enter the container

    Run the following command:

    ```plaintext
    docker exec -it <CONTAINER_ID> bash
    ```

    Replace the `<CONTAINER_ID>` parameter with the correct value.

    ### List the contents of the `/var/log/memgraph` directory

    ```plaintext
    ls /var/log/memgraph
    ```

    ### List the content of the log 
    
    To list the content of the log, use the `cat /var/log/memgraph/<memgraph_date>.log` command.

    For example, if the `ls` command returned `memgraph_2022-03-04.log` you would
    list the contents using the following command:

    ```plaintext
    cat /var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log
    ```

    #### Filtering unnecessary log messages

    When you inspect Memgraph's log files, you might find too many details that make it
    hard to spot the important messages. To make analyzing the logs easier, you can
    use a tool such as `grep` to remove the messages you don't need. For instance, if you want to ignore messages about internal Memgraph Lab work or too much information
    on storage, indexes, rules, and triggers, you can use this grep command:

    ```bash
    grep -v -E "SHOW STORAGE INFO|APP_INTERNAL_EXEC_VAR|SHOW INDEX INFO|SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO|SHOW TRIGGERS" /var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log
    ```

    This command excludes log lines containing `SHOW STORAGE INFO`, any occurrences
    of `APP_INTERNAL_EXEC_VAR`, `SHOW INDEX INFO`, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO`, and `SHOW
    TRIGGERS`, making it easier to focus on the messages that are most relevant to
    your monitoring and troubleshooting efforts.

    Note: Replace `/var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log` with the actual path to your log
    file.

    ### Save logs locally
    
    If you want to save the log to your computer, exit the container with
    `CTRL+D` or `exit`, place yourself in a directory where you want to save the copy and run
    the following command:

    ```plaintext
    docker cp  <CONTAINER_ID>:/var/log/memgraph/<memgraph_date>.log <memgraph_date>.log
    ```

    For example, the following command will make a copy of the
    `memgraph_2022-03-04.log` file on the user's desktop:

    ```plaintext
    C:\Users\Vlasta\Desktop>docker cp bb3de2634afe:/var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log memgraph_2022-03-04.log

    ```

</Steps>


## Audit log (Enterprise)

Memgraph supports all query audit logging. When enabled, the audit log contains
records of all queries executed on the database.  Each executed query is one
entry (one line) in the audit log. The audit log itself is a CSV file.

All audit logs are written to
`<MEMGRAPH_DURABILITY_DIRECTORY>/audit/audit.log`.  The log is rotated using
`logrotate`, so entries in the `audit.log` file are always the newest entries.
Entries in `audit.log.1`, `audit.log.2.gz`, etc.  are older entries. The
default log rotation configuration can be found in `/etc/logrotate.d/memgraph`.
By default, the log is rotated every day and a full year of entries is
preserved. You can modify the values to your own needs and preferences.

### Format

The audit log contains the following information formatted into a CSV file:
```plaintext
<timestamp>,<address>,<username>,<query>,<params>
```
For each query, the supplied query parameters are also logged. The query is
escaped and quoted so that commas in queries don't affect the correctness of
the CSV. The parameters are encoded as JSON objects and are then escaped and
quoted.

### Example

This is an example of the audit log:

```plaintext
1551376833.225395,127.0.0.1,admin,"MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n","{}"
1551376833.257825,127.0.0.1,admin,"CREATE (n {name: $name})","{\"name\":\"alice\"}"
1551376833.273546,127.0.0.1,admin,"MATCH (n), (m) CREATE (n)-[:e {when: $when}]->(m)","{\"when\":42}"
1551376833.300955,127.0.0.1,admin,"MATCH (n), (m) SET n.value = m.value","{}"
```

We can see that all of the queries were executed from the loopback address and
were executed by the user `admin`.  The executed queries are:

```
 Query                                            | Parameters
--------------------------------------------------|-----------
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n                         | {}
CREATE (n {name: $name})                          | {"name": "alice"}
MATCH (n), (m) CREATE (n)-[:e {when: $when}]->(m) | {"when": 42}
MATCH (n), (m) SET n.value = m.value              | {}
```

### Parsing the log

If you wish to parse the log, the following Python snippet shows how to extract
data from the audit log:

```python
import csv
import json

with open("audit.log") as f:
    reader = csv.reader(f, delimiter=',', doublequote=False,
                        escapechar='\\', lineterminator='\n',
                        quotechar='"', quoting=csv.QUOTE_MINIMAL,
                        skipinitialspace=False, strict=True)
    for line in reader:
        timestamp, address, username, query, params = line
        params = json.loads(params)
        # Rest of your code that processes the logs.
```

### Flags

Use the following flags to configure audit logging in Memgraph.

| Flag                               | Description                                                                                    |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--audit-enabled`                  | Enables audit logging.                                                                         |
| `--audit-buffer-size`              | Controls the in-memory buffer size used for audit logs.                                        |
| `--audit-buffer-flush-interval-ms` | Controls the time interval (in milliseconds) used for flushing the in-memory buffer to disk.   |

Commit message:

Added description for hiding sensitive information under database-man… (#873)
* Docs improvements (#799)

* Add NuRaft log file flag (#816)

* Add health checks docs (#833)

* Update HA examples

* Add NuRaft log file env (#848)

* Add leader/follower role (#857)

Co-authored-by: Antonio Filipovic <61245998+antoniofilipovic@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add coordinator hostname HA configuration option (#860)

* First leader

* Update pages/clustering/high-availability.mdx

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Kruno Golubic <46486712+kgolubic@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add monitoring at runtime docs (#806)

* Added description for hiding sensitive information under database-managment/logs

* database-less connections update (#853)

* Update HA docs

* Added link to correct chapter

* Fixed issues pointed out in pr

* Add comments to PR review

---------

Co-authored-by: Andi <andi8647@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Kruno Golubic <46486712+kgolubic@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: kgolubic <kgolubic@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Antonio Filipovic <61245998+antoniofilipovic@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Josipmrden <josip.mrden@memgraph.io>
Co-authored-by: andrejtonev <29177572+andrejtonev@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: hal-eisen-MG <145572763+hal-eisen-MG@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/database-management/logs.mdx, after:

---
title: Logs
description: Discover how to make the most of logs for monitoring and troubleshooting purposes. Explore the documentation page for Memgraph and harness the power of log management.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Logs

The default location of logs is inside the `/var/log/memgraph/` directory. That
location can be configured using the `--log-file` [configuration
flag](/database-management/configuration#other).


Memgraph tracks logs at various levels: TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR,
CRITICAL. By default, it is using the WARNING level, but you can change the
level using the [`--log-level`](/database-management/configuration#other)
configuration flag or [during
runtime](/database-management/configuration#change-configuration-settings-during-runtime) using the `SET
DATABASE SETTING "log.level" TO "TRACE";`

The configuration set during runtime will be applied only for that session.

You can check the log level by running `SHOW DATABASE SETTING "log.level";` query.

To access the logs from the Memgraph Lab interface, make sure to expose the port
7444 when starting Memgraph with Docker. 

## Access logs

If you installed Memgraph with Linux, logs can be found in the
`/var/log/memgraph` directory.

If you installed Memgraph using Docker, the easiest way to access the logs is by
having a [named volume](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) on the
`/var/log/memgraph` directory and checking its content. If you're not using a
named volume, here are the steps to access the logs within the running Docker
container:

<Steps>

    ### Find container ID
    
    Open a new terminal and find the `CONTAINER_ID` of the Memgraph Docker
    container:

    ```plaintext
    docker ps
    ```

    ### Enter the container

    Run the following command:

    ```plaintext
    docker exec -it <CONTAINER_ID> bash
    ```

    Replace the `<CONTAINER_ID>` parameter with the correct value.

    ### List the contents of the `/var/log/memgraph` directory

    ```plaintext
    ls /var/log/memgraph
    ```

    ### List the content of the log 
    
    To list the content of the log, use the `cat /var/log/memgraph/<memgraph_date>.log` command.

    For example, if the `ls` command returned `memgraph_2022-03-04.log` you would
    list the contents using the following command:

    ```plaintext
    cat /var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log
    ```

    #### Filtering unnecessary log messages

    When you inspect Memgraph's log files, you might find too many details that make it
    hard to spot the important messages. To make analyzing the logs easier, you can
    use a tool such as `grep` to remove the messages you don't need. For instance, if you want to ignore messages about internal Memgraph Lab work or too much information
    on storage, indexes, rules, and triggers, you can use this grep command:

    ```bash
    grep -v -E "SHOW STORAGE INFO|APP_INTERNAL_EXEC_VAR|SHOW INDEX INFO|SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO|SHOW TRIGGERS" /var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log
    ```

    This command excludes log lines containing `SHOW STORAGE INFO`, any occurrences
    of `APP_INTERNAL_EXEC_VAR`, `SHOW INDEX INFO`, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO`, and `SHOW
    TRIGGERS`, making it easier to focus on the messages that are most relevant to
    your monitoring and troubleshooting efforts.

    Note: Replace `/var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log` with the actual path to your log
    file.

    ### Save logs locally
    
    If you want to save the log to your computer, exit the container with
    `CTRL+D` or `exit`, place yourself in a directory where you want to save the copy and run
    the following command:

    ```plaintext
    docker cp  <CONTAINER_ID>:/var/log/memgraph/<memgraph_date>.log <memgraph_date>.log
    ```

    For example, the following command will make a copy of the
    `memgraph_2022-03-04.log` file on the user's desktop:

    ```plaintext
    C:\Users\Vlasta\Desktop>docker cp bb3de2634afe:/var/log/memgraph/memgraph_2022-03-04.log memgraph_2022-03-04.log

    ```

</Steps>

## Hiding passwords (Enterprise)

To enhance security, it's crucial to ensure that sensitive information is not logged.
In the example below we can see how passwords are masked in the Enterprise edition of Memgraph:

Original log (Community version):

```plaintext
SET PASSWORD TO 'newpassword' REPLACE 'oldpassword'
```

Masked log (Enterprise version):

```plaintext
SET PASSWORD TO '****' REPLACE '****'
```

All passwords are replaced with `****` to prevent their exposure in the logs. 
This approach ensures that even if logs are accessed by unauthorized individuals, 
they won't be able to retrieve the actual passwords.

## Audit log (Enterprise)

Memgraph supports all query audit logging. When enabled, the audit log contains
records of all queries executed on the database.  Each executed query is one
entry (one line) in the audit log. The audit log itself is a CSV file.

All audit logs are written to
`<MEMGRAPH_DURABILITY_DIRECTORY>/audit/audit.log`.  The log is rotated using
`logrotate`, so entries in the `audit.log` file are always the newest entries.
Entries in `audit.log.1`, `audit.log.2.gz`, etc.  are older entries. The
default log rotation configuration can be found in `/etc/logrotate.d/memgraph`.
By default, the log is rotated every day and a full year of entries is
preserved. You can modify the values to your own needs and preferences.

### Format

The audit log contains the following information formatted into a CSV file:
```plaintext
<timestamp>,<address>,<username>,<query>,<params>
```
For each query, the supplied query parameters are also logged. The query is
escaped and quoted so that commas in queries don't affect the correctness of
the CSV. The parameters are encoded as JSON objects and are then escaped and
quoted.

### Example

This is an example of the audit log:

```plaintext
1551376833.225395,127.0.0.1,admin,"MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n","{}"
1551376833.257825,127.0.0.1,admin,"CREATE (n {name: $name})","{\"name\":\"alice\"}"
1551376833.273546,127.0.0.1,admin,"MATCH (n), (m) CREATE (n)-[:e {when: $when}]->(m)","{\"when\":42}"
1551376833.300955,127.0.0.1,admin,"MATCH (n), (m) SET n.value = m.value","{}"
```

We can see that all of the queries were executed from the loopback address and
were executed by the user `admin`.  The executed queries are:

```
 Query                                            | Parameters
--------------------------------------------------|-----------
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n                         | {}
CREATE (n {name: $name})                          | {"name": "alice"}
MATCH (n), (m) CREATE (n)-[:e {when: $when}]->(m) | {"when": 42}
MATCH (n), (m) SET n.value = m.value              | {}
```

### Parsing the log

If you wish to parse the log, the following Python snippet shows how to extract
data from the audit log:

```python
import csv
import json

with open("audit.log") as f:
    reader = csv.reader(f, delimiter=',', doublequote=False,
                        escapechar='\\', lineterminator='\n',
                        quotechar='"', quoting=csv.QUOTE_MINIMAL,
                        skipinitialspace=False, strict=True)
    for line in reader:
        timestamp, address, username, query, params = line
        params = json.loads(params)
        # Rest of your code that processes the logs.
```

### Flags

Use the following flags to configure audit logging in Memgraph.

| Flag                               | Description                                                                                    |
|------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `--audit-enabled`                  | Enables audit logging.                                                                         |
| `--audit-buffer-size`              | Controls the in-memory buffer size used for audit logs.                                        |
| `--audit-buffer-flush-interval-ms` | Controls the time interval (in milliseconds) used for flushing the in-memory buffer to disk.   |
