pages/database-management/system-configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: System Configuration
description: Explore the documentation page for Memgraph and get insights into system configuration options.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# System configuration

Enhancing Memgraph's performance can sometimes involve optimizing operating
system-level configurations. These adjustments primarily relate to the settings
governing resource allocation and process management.

The following configuration steps are written based on the Ubuntu 22.04 operating system. 
The steps may vary slightly depending on the Linux distribution you are using. 

## Handle numerous open files simultaneously

The `fs.file-max` parameter in Linux sets the maximum number of file handles
that the Linux kernel will allocate. This adjustment is important when the
system needs to handle numerous open files simultaneously. To adjust this
parameter, do the following:

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Open `/etc/sysctl.conf` in a text editor</h3>}
You need root privileges to
edit this file, which is used for configuring kernel parameters at runtime.


{<h3 className="custom-header">Set the file handle limit</h3>}
Add the line `fs.file-max=100000` to
`sysctl.conf`. 

{<h3 className="custom-header">Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and exit the text editor. Run
`sudo sysctl -p` to apply the changes immediately without rebooting.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Verify the changes</h3>}
Run `sysctl fs.file-max` to check that the new
value has been applied. It should return `100000`.

</Steps>

## Increasing memory map areas

If users are working on a larger scale, there is a possibility that a
transaction is hanging because Memgraph tries to allocate memory and it couldn’t
as it was out of virtual memory space. User can adjust the `vm.max_map_count`
parameter to define the maximum number of memory map areas a process can have. 

### Recommended values for the `vm.max_map_count` parameter

For optimal system performance, the `vm.max_map_count` value should be chosen in
accordance with your system's RAM, aiming for approximately one memory map area
per 128 KB of system memory.

| Amount of RAM | `vm.max_map_count` value |
|---------------|-------------------------|
| 8GB - 32GB    | `vm.max_map_count=262144`|
| 32GB - 64GB   | `vm.max_map_count=524288`|
| 64GB - 128GB  | `vm.max_map_count=1048576`|
| 128GB - 256GB | `vm.max_map_count=2097152`|
| 256GB - 512GB | `vm.max_map_count=4194304`|
| 512GB - 1TB   | `vm.max_map_count=8388608`|
| 1TB - 1.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=12582912`|
| 1.5TB - 2TB   | `vm.max_map_count=16777216`|
| 2TB - 2.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=20971520`|
| 2.5TB - 3TB   | `vm.max_map_count=25165824`|
| 3TB - 3.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=29360128`|
| 3.5TB - 4TB   | `vm.max_map_count=33554432`|

### Immediate adjustment

For instance, if your recommended `vm.max_map_count` value is `262144`, run
`sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144` to immediately increase the memory map
area limit to 262,144. This change takes effect right away but lasts only until
the next reboot.

### Persistent adjustment

To ensure that changes to `vm.max_map_count` persist after a reboot, follow these steps:

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Edit `/etc/sysctl.conf`</h3>}
Add `vm.max_map_count=262144` to
`/etc/sysctl.conf`. Root privileges are required for editing.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and run `sudo sysctl -p` to apply
them right away.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Verify the changes</h3>}
Run `sysctl vm.max_map_count` to ensure the new
value is in effect. It should return `262144`.

</Steps>

## Addressing stack overflow issues

Stack overflow issues may occur due to a large query in Memgraph. To address
these issues, there are two possible approaches:

1. [Increase the stack size](#increase-the-stack-size)
2. [Split the query into smaller chunks](#split-the-query-into-smaller-chunks)

### Increase the stack size

#### With Docker

<Steps>
{<h3 className="custom-header">Run Docker image</h3>}

Run the Memgraph using:

```bash
docker run --rm -it --name memgraph --ulimit stack=33554432:33554432 -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 memgraph/memgraph
```
Replace `33554432` with the required stack size in bytes.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Verify the changes</h3>}
To check the new stack size limits, run:

```bash
docker exec memgraph sh -c "ulimit -a | grep stack"
```

This command should return `stack(kbytes) 32768`, confirming that the new stack size limits
have been applied. This value is equivalent of 32MB


</Steps>

#### Without Docker

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Open /etc/security/limits.conf in a text editor</h3>}
You need root privileges to edit this file. This file is used to set user or
group-specific soft and hard limits for various system resources.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Set the stack size limit</h3>}
Add the following lines to set both the soft and hard stack size limits for the
user:

```
memgraph soft stack 32768
memgraph hard stack 32768
```

The value `32768` represents the stack size in kilobytes, equivalent to 32MB.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and exit the text editor. For the changes to take effect, the
user may need to log out and then log back in.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Verify the changes</h3>}
To check the new stack size limits, switch to the user account and run:

```
ulimit -s
```

This command should return `32768`, confirming that the new stack size limits
have been applied.

</Steps>

### Split the query into smaller chunks

To avoid stack overflow, divide your large query into smaller parts. This
approach requires careful handling of variables and node references across
queries. For creating edges between nodes created in separate queries, use the
`MATCH` clause to reference nodes from previous queries:

```cypher
// First Query
CREATE (a:Node {id: 1});
// Second Query
MATCH (a:Node {id: 1})
CREATE (b:Node {id: 2}), (a)-[:RELATES_TO]->(b);
```
This method reduces the stack size required for each query, potentially avoiding
the stack overflow issue.

## IPv6 networking configuration

If you are running Memgraph on a system with IPv6 enabled and want to connect
via an IPv6 address, you may encounter issues where Memgraph is not reachable
over IPv6.

<Callout> 
**How to check if IPv6 is enabled on your system**

**Windows**
1. Open Command Prompt (Win + R, type cmd, hit Enter).
2. Type `ipconfig /all`.
3. Look for the "IPv6 Address" section.

**Mac/Linux**
1. Open Terminal.
2. Type `ifconfig | grep inet6` or `ip -6 addr`.
3. If you see IPv6 addresses, it is enabled.
</Callout> 

Here are the possible error messages you might encounter:

```
Connection failure: couldn't connect to host: Connection refused
```
```
Error: Couldn't connect to [::]:7687 (resolved to ('[::]:7687',)):
Failed to read any data from server ResolvedIPv6Address(('::', 7687, 0, 0))
```

To fix this, **disable IPv6** or **configure Memgraph** to use it. 

<h3 className="custom-header">Configure Memgraph to use IPv6</h3>

To configure Memgraph to use IPv6, explicitly instruct the Bolt server to listen
on an IPv6 address. To do that, set the `--bolt-address`
[configuration](/database-management/configuration) to an IPv6 address when
starting Memgraph. To start Memgraph with the Bolt server listening on all IPv6
interfaces (::), set `--bolt-address=::`. 

The following command runs Memgraph in Docker with the `--bolt-address` set to `::`:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph:latest --bolt-address=::
```

When connecting to the running Memgraph instance with mgconsole or a certain
driver, then the host parameter or URI must be set to `::` (corresponding to
IPv4 `0.0.0.0`) or `::1` (corresponding to IPv4 `127.0.0.1`). Network's IPv6 can
be used to connect from a client if everything is running in a explicit IPv6
Docker network.

If you are using monitoring server or metrics, they should be configured to
connect to the IPv6 address as well.

Commit message:

Update vm.max_map_count info (#1417)
* vm.max_map_count info

* remove unnecessary words

* PR changes

pages/database-management/system-configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: System Configuration
description: Explore the documentation page for Memgraph and get insights into system configuration options.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# System configuration

Enhancing Memgraph's performance can sometimes involve optimizing operating
system-level configurations. These adjustments primarily relate to the settings
governing resource allocation and process management.

The following configuration steps are written based on the Ubuntu 22.04 operating system. 
The steps may vary slightly depending on the Linux distribution you are using. 

## Handle numerous open files simultaneously

The `fs.file-max` parameter in Linux sets the maximum number of file handles
that the Linux kernel will allocate. This adjustment is important when the
system needs to handle numerous open files simultaneously. To adjust this
parameter, do the following:

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Open `/etc/sysctl.conf` in a text editor</h3>}
You need root privileges to
edit this file, which is used for configuring kernel parameters at runtime.


{<h3 className="custom-header">Set the file handle limit</h3>}
Add the line `fs.file-max=100000` to
`sysctl.conf`. 

{<h3 className="custom-header">Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and exit the text editor. Run
`sudo sysctl -p` to apply the changes immediately without rebooting.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Verify the changes</h3>}
Run `sysctl fs.file-max` to check that the new
value has been applied. It should return `100000`.

</Steps>

## Increasing memory map areas

If users are working on a larger scale, there is a possibility that a
transaction is hanging because Memgraph tries to allocate memory and it couldn’t
as it was out of virtual memory space. User can adjust the `vm.max_map_count`
parameter to define the maximum number of memory map areas a process can have. 

### Recommended values for the `vm.max_map_count` parameter

For optimal system performance, the `vm.max_map_count` value should be chosen in
accordance with your system's RAM, aiming for approximately one memory map area
per 128 KB of system memory.

<Callout type="warning">
The recommended values below are starting points and may need to be increased depending on your workload.
If you encounter `munmap` errors or crashes due to `bad_alloc` errors, you should try increasing the `vm.max_map_count` value beyond the recommended amount.
</Callout>

| Amount of RAM | `vm.max_map_count` value |
|---------------|-------------------------|
| 8GB - 32GB    | `vm.max_map_count=262144`|
| 32GB - 64GB   | `vm.max_map_count=524288`|
| 64GB - 128GB  | `vm.max_map_count=1048576`|
| 128GB - 256GB | `vm.max_map_count=2097152`|
| 256GB - 512GB | `vm.max_map_count=4194304`|
| 512GB - 1TB   | `vm.max_map_count=8388608`|
| 1TB - 1.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=12582912`|
| 1.5TB - 2TB   | `vm.max_map_count=16777216`|
| 2TB - 2.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=20971520`|
| 2.5TB - 3TB   | `vm.max_map_count=25165824`|
| 3TB - 3.5TB   | `vm.max_map_count=29360128`|
| 3.5TB - 4TB   | `vm.max_map_count=33554432`|

### Immediate adjustment

For instance, if your recommended `vm.max_map_count` value is `262144`, run
`sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144` to immediately increase the memory map
area limit to 262,144. This change takes effect right away but lasts only until
the next reboot.

### Persistent adjustment

To ensure that changes to `vm.max_map_count` persist after a reboot, follow these steps:

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Edit `/etc/sysctl.conf`</h3>}
Add `vm.max_map_count=262144` to
`/etc/sysctl.conf`. Root privileges are required for editing.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and run `sudo sysctl -p` to apply
them right away.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Verify the changes</h3>}
Run `sysctl vm.max_map_count` to ensure the new
value is in effect. It should return `262144`.

</Steps>

## Addressing stack overflow issues

Stack overflow issues may occur due to a large query in Memgraph. To address
these issues, there are two possible approaches:

1. [Increase the stack size](#increase-the-stack-size)
2. [Split the query into smaller chunks](#split-the-query-into-smaller-chunks)

### Increase the stack size

#### With Docker

<Steps>
{<h3 className="custom-header">Run Docker image</h3>}

Run the Memgraph using:

```bash
docker run --rm -it --name memgraph --ulimit stack=33554432:33554432 -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 memgraph/memgraph
```
Replace `33554432` with the required stack size in bytes.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Verify the changes</h3>}
To check the new stack size limits, run:

```bash
docker exec memgraph sh -c "ulimit -a | grep stack"
```

This command should return `stack(kbytes) 32768`, confirming that the new stack size limits
have been applied. This value is equivalent of 32MB


</Steps>

#### Without Docker

<Steps>

{<h3 className="custom-header">Open /etc/security/limits.conf in a text editor</h3>}
You need root privileges to edit this file. This file is used to set user or
group-specific soft and hard limits for various system resources.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Set the stack size limit</h3>}
Add the following lines to set both the soft and hard stack size limits for the
user:

```
memgraph soft stack 32768
memgraph hard stack 32768
```

The value `32768` represents the stack size in kilobytes, equivalent to 32MB.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Apply the changes</h3>}
Save your changes and exit the text editor. For the changes to take effect, the
user may need to log out and then log back in.

{<h3 className="custom-header">Verify the changes</h3>}
To check the new stack size limits, switch to the user account and run:

```
ulimit -s
```

This command should return `32768`, confirming that the new stack size limits
have been applied.

</Steps>

### Split the query into smaller chunks

To avoid stack overflow, divide your large query into smaller parts. This
approach requires careful handling of variables and node references across
queries. For creating edges between nodes created in separate queries, use the
`MATCH` clause to reference nodes from previous queries:

```cypher
// First Query
CREATE (a:Node {id: 1});
// Second Query
MATCH (a:Node {id: 1})
CREATE (b:Node {id: 2}), (a)-[:RELATES_TO]->(b);
```
This method reduces the stack size required for each query, potentially avoiding
the stack overflow issue.

## IPv6 networking configuration

If you are running Memgraph on a system with IPv6 enabled and want to connect
via an IPv6 address, you may encounter issues where Memgraph is not reachable
over IPv6.

<Callout> 
**How to check if IPv6 is enabled on your system**

**Windows**
1. Open Command Prompt (Win + R, type cmd, hit Enter).
2. Type `ipconfig /all`.
3. Look for the "IPv6 Address" section.

**Mac/Linux**
1. Open Terminal.
2. Type `ifconfig | grep inet6` or `ip -6 addr`.
3. If you see IPv6 addresses, it is enabled.
</Callout> 

Here are the possible error messages you might encounter:

```
Connection failure: couldn't connect to host: Connection refused
```
```
Error: Couldn't connect to [::]:7687 (resolved to ('[::]:7687',)):
Failed to read any data from server ResolvedIPv6Address(('::', 7687, 0, 0))
```

To fix this, **disable IPv6** or **configure Memgraph** to use it. 

<h3 className="custom-header">Configure Memgraph to use IPv6</h3>

To configure Memgraph to use IPv6, explicitly instruct the Bolt server to listen
on an IPv6 address. To do that, set the `--bolt-address`
[configuration](/database-management/configuration) to an IPv6 address when
starting Memgraph. To start Memgraph with the Bolt server listening on all IPv6
interfaces (::), set `--bolt-address=::`. 

The following command runs Memgraph in Docker with the `--bolt-address` set to `::`:

```
docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph:latest --bolt-address=::
```

When connecting to the running Memgraph instance with mgconsole or a certain
driver, then the host parameter or URI must be set to `::` (corresponding to
IPv4 `0.0.0.0`) or `::1` (corresponding to IPv4 `127.0.0.1`). Network's IPv6 can
be used to connect from a client if everything is running in a explicit IPv6
Docker network.

If you are using monitoring server or metrics, they should be configured to
connect to the IPv6 address as well.
