---
title: Deploy Memgraph on Azure Virtual machine (VM) 
description: Learn how to deploy your Memgraph instance on the Azure virtual machine. 
---

import { Card, Cards, Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Deploy Memgraph in Azure Virtual machine (VM)

This guide will show you how to deploy Memgraph on an Azure virtual machine. The
guide will cover only the specific bits that are different from the general
deployment guide you can find for native [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployments.

This guide assumes you have an Azure account and are familiar with the Azure
portal. If you are not, you can follow the [Azure Virtual machine quick start
guide
documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-portal?tabs=ubuntu).

## Creating a new Azure VM

The first step is to have a VM running on Azure, where you will deploy Memgraph.
Since Memgraph works nicely with Linux distributions, it is recommended that
Linux-based VMs be used. If there is a need for a Windows-based VM, you can use
Memgraph with Docker on Windows VM. 

Below are some guidelines to consider if you are opening a new Azure VM for
Memgraph. 

### Picking the OS 

During the VM creation, you must pick the OS you wish to have on the VM. If you
use Memgraph native installation, you must pick a Linux distribution that
Memgraph supports.

Memgraph supports the following Linux distributions:

- Ubuntu (20.04, 22.04)
- Fedora (38, 39)
- Debian (11, 12) 
- CentOS (7, 9) 
- Amazon Linux (2)
- RedHat (7, 9)
- Rocky (9.3)

This way, you will manage the native installation of Memgraph, which can bring
some of the speed benefits. 

If you use the Memgraph Docker image, you can pick any Linux distribution or
Windows, as long as you can run Docker on it.


### Picking the VM type

When creating the VM, you need to pick the VM type. The process highly depends
on your actuall workload. For heavy graph processing, consider using a VM with
more CPU and memory. 

Memgraph, by default, stores all data into the RAM, if you are going to use
default storage mode (IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL or IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL), make a
calculation [how much data you will
need]((../fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#calculate-storage-memory-usage)).
There is also an [easy-to-use
calulator](https://memgraph.com/enterprise#ram-calculator) for approximating
memory usage. The rule of thumb is to have double the memory of what your
storage would take. You can go with less if you do not have a demanding
workload. 

Azure has specialized instances for [memory-optimized
workloads](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-memory)
which are designed for in-memory databases, data analytics, and other
memory-intensive applications. They also provide DDR5 memory, so you may
consider using them to optimize for better performance. 

### Network Setup

When creating the VM, you need to set up the network access and inbound port
rules. By default, the Memgraph uses port 7687 for the Bolt protocol. You need
to open this port for TCP traffic and to allow connections to Memgraph. 

If you change the default Bolt port, update the inbound port rules accordingly.

Also, if deploying Memgraph for replication or clustering, the ports for the
replication and clustering should be open as well.

### Setup the storage 

When creating the VM, you need to setup the disk storage. By default Memgraph
stores all data to working RAM, but for the [persistency between
restarts](../fundamentals/data-durability) Memgraph uses the disk storage to
store snapshots, configurations, etc.

The sizing of the storage depends on the amount of data you are going to store
in your Memgraph database, and the quantity of the snapshots you want to keep
alive. 

The general rule of thumb is to double the storage of the amount of data you
will store. If you are going to store 100GB of data, you should have at least
200GB of disk storage. 


## Installing Memgraph 

Depending on the way you want to deploy Memgraph, native or via Docker, you need
to follow the steps below: 

<Tabs items={["Docker" , "Linux"]}>

 <Tab>
For example, if you are using Ubuntu 20.04, you can follow the steps
 below to install Docker:

     ```bash
        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg-agent software-properties-common
        sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu focal stable"
        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
        docker --version
       
    ```
 Note that the steps above may vary depending on your exact Linux distribution.

 After Docker is installed, you can pull the Memgraph image and run it:

    ```bash
        docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph:latest
    ```

 This will run Memgraph on the default port 7687. You should be able to connect
    to it via [Memgraph Lab](../data-visualization) or via [client
 libraries](../client-libraries) using the Bolt protocol. If you are experiencing issues while
 connecting to Memgraph remotely, make sure that the port 7687 is open in [the
 inbound roules on your Azure VM](#Setup-the-network). 
 </Tab>

 <Tab>

 Depending on the Linux distribution you are using, you can follow the guide for
 installing Memgraph on each distribution: 

    - [Ubuntu](../getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu.mdx)
    - [Fedora](../getting-started/install-memgraph/fedora.mdx)
    - [Debian](../getting-started/install-memgraph/debian.mdx)
    - [Centos](../getting-started/install-memgraph/centos.mdx)
    - [Amazon Linux](../getting-started/install-memgraph/amazon-linux.mdx)
    - [RedHat](../getting-started/install-memgraph/redhat.mdx)
    - [Rocky](../getting-started/install-memgraph/rocky.mdx)

 </Tab>
  </Tabs>

## Manage Memgraph deployment

After Memgraph is installed and running on your Azure VM, Memgraph management in
Azure VM is identical to the general guidelines that are described in the form
of a native Linux Memgraph or Docker container Memgraph. 

Depending on what you are using, you can follow the [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployment guide for more information on how to manage
the Memgraph deployment.


## Next steps

Memgraph also supports deployment in the Kubernetes environment. If you are
interested in deploying Memgraph in Kubernetes, you can follow the [Memgraph
Kubernetes installation
guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes.mdx). 
