pages/deployment/azure.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploy Memgraph on Azure Virtual Machine (VM) 
description: Learn how to choose instance type, select OS, and configure the network for Memgraph deployment.
---

import { Card, Cards, Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Deploy Memgraph on Azure Virtual Machine (VM)

This guide will show you how to deploy Memgraph on an Azure Virtual Machine. The
guide will cover only the specific bits that are different from the general
deployment guide you can find for native [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployments.

This guide assumes you have an Azure account and are familiar with the Azure
portal. If you are not, you can follow the [Azure Virtual Machine quick start
guide
documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-portal?tabs=ubuntu).

## Creating a new Azure VM

The first step is to have a VM running on Azure, where you will deploy Memgraph.
Since Memgraph works nicely with Linux distributions, it is recommended that
Linux-based VMs be used. If there is a need for a Windows-based VM, you can use
Memgraph with Docker on Windows VM. 

Below are some guidelines to consider if you are opening a new Azure VM for
Memgraph. 

### Picking the OS 

During the VM creation, you must pick the OS you wish to have on the VM. If you
use Memgraph native installation, you must pick a Linux distribution that
Memgraph supports.

Memgraph supports multiple Linux distributions. Memgraph packages for supported distributions and versions can be downloaded 
from the [following page](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux)

Running Memgraph natively will bring some speed improvements compared to the
Docker version of Memgraph. 

If you are going to use the Memgraph Docker image, pick the Linux you are most familiar with.

Memgraph in Docker can be deployed both on x86 and ARM architecture. All native
distributions work on x86 architecture. Some of the native distributions also
work on ARM architecture (Debian, Ubuntu), some do not (Centos, Fedora). Check
the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux) for
detailed information.

### Picking the VM type

When creating the VM, you need to pick the VM type. If you run
Memgraph in `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` (default mode) or in
`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` storage mode, all data is stored in RAM. That means it
would be good first to calculate [how much memory you will
need](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#calculate-storage-memory-usage). There
is also an [easy-to-use
calulator](https://memgraph.com/enterprise#ram-calculator) for approximating
memory usage. The good rule of thumb is for your server to have double the memory of what your
storage was calculated to be. You can go with less if you do not have a demanding
workload. A demanding workload would be a query that traverses half of the graph
and returns half of the graph.

Azure has specialized instances for [memory-optimized
workloads](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-memory)
which are designed for in-memory databases, data analytics, and other
memory-intensive applications. They provide a good cost per GB of RAM and performance for
Memgraph. Once you know how much memory you need, you can pick the instance from
the memory-optimized instance pools based on your data needs and budget. 

Instances vary based on the supported architectures, number of CPU cores,
network bandwidth, block storage, etc. All hardware specs typically scale with the
instance size. Memgraph is not demanding on the rest of the hardware specs as long as there
is sufficent RAM. The basic [E instance familiy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes/memory-optimized/e-family) are good starting points
for Memgraph. 

If you are running Memgraph in `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode, you need to
consider the instances [optimized for
storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes/storage-optimized/l-family).


### Network Setup

When creating the VM, you need to set up the [network access and inbound port
rules](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/tutorial-filter-network-traffic).
 By default, the Memgraph uses port 7687 for the Bolt protocol. You need
to open this port for TCP traffic and to allow connections to Memgraph. 

If you change the default Bolt port, update the inbound port rules accordingly.


Also, if deploying Memgraph for
[Replication](/clustering/replication#replication) or [High
Availability](/clustering/high-availability#high-availability-enterprise), the
ports for the replication and cluster management should also be open. 
In replication configuration each instance needs to have an open port 10000 for the
replication. In a high availability configuration, each **data instance** needs to have an open
port of 10000 for management and a port of 20000 for replication. Each **coordinator
instance***, needs to have open port 12000. 

All instances need to have open port 7687 for the Bolt protocol.

### Setup the storage 

When creating the VM, you need to setup the disk storage. By default Memgraph
stores all data to working RAM, but for the [persistency between
restarts](../fundamentals/data-durability) Memgraph uses the disk storage to
store snapshots, configurations, etc.

It is recommended to use the [Premium SSD for
storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disks-types). 

Faster storage (SSDs) can lead to speedier snapshot creation and recovery times,
which can be important on bigger scales (billion-sized graphs). Still, it is not
critical for the Memgraph operating performance. Magnetic storage can also be
used  
on smaller scales.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disks-types
The storage size depends on the amount of data you are going to store in your
Memgraph instance and the number of active snapshots you want to keep alive.
Memgraph will periodically create snapshots of the data and store them on disk.
As the new snapshot is created, the oldest one is deleted. The number of
snapshots you want to keep alive is configurable in the Memgraph configuration
file.

The recommendation is to double the storage of the data you will store in
Memgraph. If you are going to store 100GB of data in Memgraph, you should have
at least 200GB of disk storage. 


## Installing Memgraph 

Depending on the way you want to deploy Memgraph, native or via Docker, you need
to follow the steps below: 

<Tabs items={["Docker" , "Linux"]}>

 <Tab>
 If you will use the Memgraph Docker image, you need to have Docker installed on your Azure VM.
  
 After Docker is installed, you can pull the Memgraph image and run it:

   ```bash
   docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph:latest
   ```

 This will run Memgraph on the default port 7687. You should be able to connect
    to it via [Memgraph Lab](../data-visualization) or via [client
 libraries](../client-libraries) using the Bolt protocol. If you are experiencing issues while
 connecting to Memgraph remotely, make sure that the port 7687 is open in [the
 inbound roules on your Azure VM](#Setup-the-network). 

 For more information on how to install Memgraph via Docker, you can follow the [getting started guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/docker.mdx).

 </Tab>

 <Tab>

 Depending on the Linux distribution you are using, you can follow the guide for
 installing Memgraph on each distribution: 

    - [Ubuntu](../getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu.mdx)
    - [Fedora](../getting-started/install-memgraph/fedora.mdx)
    - [Debian](../getting-started/install-memgraph/debian.mdx)
    - [Centos](../getting-started/install-memgraph/centos.mdx)
    - [Amazon Linux](../getting-started/install-memgraph/amazon-linux.mdx)
    - [RedHat](../getting-started/install-memgraph/redhat.mdx)
    - [Rocky](../getting-started/install-memgraph/rocky.mdx)

 </Tab>
  </Tabs>

## Manage Memgraph deployment

After Memgraph is installed and running on your Azure VM, Memgraph management in
Azure VM is identical to the general guidelines that are described in the form
of a native Linux Memgraph or Docker container Memgraph. 

Depending on what you are using, you can follow the [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployment guide for more information on how to manage
the Memgraph deployment.

## Where to next? 

Memgraph also supports deployment in the Kubernetes environment. If you are
interested in deploying Memgraph in Kubernetes, you can follow the [Memgraph
Kubernetes installation
guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes.mdx). 

To discuss Azure deployment and similar topics, [join our Discord
community](https://www.discord.gg/memgraph).

Schedule a 30-min session with our engineers to discuss how Memgraph fits with
your architecture. Our engineers are highly experienced in helping companies of
all sizes to integrate and get the most out of Memgraph in their projects. Talk
to us about data modeling, optimizing queries, defining infrastructure
requirements or migrating from your existing graph database. No nonsense or
sales pitch, just tech.

![](/pages/getting-started/memgraph-office-hours.svg)

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Book a call"
    href="https://memgraph.com/office-hours"
  />
</Cards>

Commit message:

Update deployment suggestions (#1076)
* Add Docker recommendation for deploying Memgraph

* Add guidelines for system configuration

* Requirements for Redhat

* Update pages/deployment/aws.mdx

* Update pages/deployment/azure.mdx

* Update pages/deployment/gcp.mdx

* Update Redhat to Red Hat

* Update

---------

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: katarinasupe <supe.katarina@gmail.com>

pages/deployment/azure.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploy Memgraph on Azure Virtual Machine (VM) 
description: Learn how to choose instance type, select OS, and configure the network for Memgraph deployment.
---

import { Card, Cards, Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Deploy Memgraph on Azure Virtual Machine (VM)

This guide will show you how to deploy Memgraph on an Azure Virtual Machine. The
guide will cover only the specific bits that are different from the general
deployment guide you can find for native [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployments.

This guide assumes you have an Azure account and are familiar with the Azure
portal. If you are not, you can follow the [Azure Virtual Machine quick start
guide
documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/quick-create-portal?tabs=ubuntu).

## Creating a new Azure VM

The first step is to have a VM running on Azure, where you will deploy Memgraph.
Since Memgraph works nicely with Linux distributions, it is recommended that
Linux-based VMs be used. If there is a need for a Windows-based VM, you can use
Memgraph with Docker on Windows VM. 

Below are some guidelines to consider if you are opening a new Azure VM for
Memgraph. 

### Picking the OS 

During the VM creation, you must pick the OS you wish to have on the VM. If you
use Memgraph native installation, you must pick a Linux distribution that
Memgraph supports.

Memgraph supports multiple Linux distributions. Memgraph packages for supported distributions and versions can be downloaded 
from the [following page](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux)

Running Memgraph natively will bring some speed improvements compared to the
Docker version of Memgraph. However, deploying Memgraph with Docker is a more straightforward approach
since it comes with built-in Memgraph MAGE algorithms.
Memgraph MAGE contains graph algorithms and utility modules written in C++, Python and Rust. If you decided to run Memgraph natively, then you need to build MAGE from source, which requires manual work. For native deployment, check the guide on 
[how to build Memgraph MAGE algorithms from source](/custom-query-modules#install-mage-and-import-query-modules).
If you're trying out Memgraph for the first time, and running your own benchmarks against it, Docker is the 
recommended way to run Memgraph, as it accelerates the time to value.

If you are going to use the Memgraph Docker image, pick the Linux you are most familiar with.

Memgraph in Docker can be deployed both on x86 and ARM architecture. All native
distributions work on x86 architecture. Some of the native distributions also
work on ARM architecture (Debian, Ubuntu), some do not (Centos, Fedora). Check
the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux) for
detailed information.

### Picking the VM type

When creating the VM, you need to pick the VM type. If you run
Memgraph in `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` (default mode) or in
`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` storage mode, all data is stored in RAM. That means it
would be good first to calculate [how much memory you will
need](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#calculate-storage-memory-usage). There
is also an [easy-to-use
calulator](https://memgraph.com/enterprise#ram-calculator) for approximating
memory usage. The good rule of thumb is for your server to have double the memory of what your
storage was calculated to be. You can go with less if you do not have a demanding
workload. A demanding workload would be a query that traverses half of the graph
and returns half of the graph.

Azure has specialized instances for [memory-optimized
workloads](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes-memory)
which are designed for in-memory databases, data analytics, and other
memory-intensive applications. They provide a good cost per GB of RAM and performance for
Memgraph. Once you know how much memory you need, you can pick the instance from
the memory-optimized instance pools based on your data needs and budget. 

Instances vary based on the supported architectures, number of CPU cores,
network bandwidth, block storage, etc. All hardware specs typically scale with the
instance size. Memgraph is not demanding on the rest of the hardware specs as long as there
is sufficent RAM. The basic [E instance familiy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes/memory-optimized/e-family) are good starting points
for Memgraph. 

If you are running Memgraph in `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode, you need to
consider the instances [optimized for
storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes/storage-optimized/l-family).

### System configuration

Before running Memgraph, please check the [system configuration guidelines](/database-management/system-configuration), especially the
`vm.max_map_count` parameter setting.

### Network Setup

When creating the VM, you need to set up the [network access and inbound port
rules](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/tutorial-filter-network-traffic).
 By default, the Memgraph uses port 7687 for the Bolt protocol. You need
to open this port for TCP traffic and to allow connections to Memgraph. 

If you change the default Bolt port, update the inbound port rules accordingly.


Also, if deploying Memgraph for
[Replication](/clustering/replication#replication) or [High
Availability](/clustering/high-availability#high-availability-enterprise), the
ports for the replication and cluster management should also be open. 
In replication configuration each instance needs to have an open port 10000 for the
replication. In a high availability configuration, each **data instance** needs to have an open
port of 10000 for management and a port of 20000 for replication. Each **coordinator
instance***, needs to have open port 12000. 

All instances need to have open port 7687 for the Bolt protocol.

### Setup the storage 

When creating the VM, you need to setup the disk storage. By default Memgraph
stores all data to working RAM, but for the [persistency between
restarts](../fundamentals/data-durability) Memgraph uses the disk storage to
store snapshots, configurations, etc.

It is recommended to use the [Premium SSD for
storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disks-types). 

Faster storage (SSDs) can lead to speedier snapshot creation and recovery times,
which can be important on bigger scales (billion-sized graphs). Still, it is not
critical for the Memgraph operating performance. Magnetic storage can also be
used  
on smaller scales.
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disks-types
The storage size depends on the amount of data you are going to store in your
Memgraph instance and the number of active snapshots you want to keep alive.
Memgraph will periodically create snapshots of the data and store them on disk.
As the new snapshot is created, the oldest one is deleted. The number of
snapshots you want to keep alive is configurable in the Memgraph configuration
file.

The recommendation is to double the storage of the data you will store in
Memgraph. If you are going to store 100GB of data in Memgraph, you should have
at least 200GB of disk storage. 


## Installing Memgraph 

Depending on the way you want to deploy Memgraph, native or via Docker, you need
to follow the steps below: 

<Tabs items={["Docker" , "Linux"]}>

 <Tab>
 If you will use the Memgraph Docker image, you need to have Docker installed on your Azure VM.
  
 After Docker is installed, you can pull the Memgraph image and run it:

   ```bash
   docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph:latest
   ```

 This will run Memgraph on the default port 7687. You should be able to connect
    to it via [Memgraph Lab](../data-visualization) or via [client
 libraries](../client-libraries) using the Bolt protocol. If you are experiencing issues while
 connecting to Memgraph remotely, make sure that the port 7687 is open in [the
 inbound roules on your Azure VM](#Setup-the-network). 

 For more information on how to install Memgraph via Docker, you can follow the [getting started guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/docker.mdx).

 </Tab>

 <Tab>

 Depending on the Linux distribution you are using, you can follow the guide for
 installing Memgraph on each distribution: 

    - [Ubuntu](../getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu.mdx)
    - [Fedora](../getting-started/install-memgraph/fedora.mdx)
    - [Debian](../getting-started/install-memgraph/debian.mdx)
    - [Centos](../getting-started/install-memgraph/centos.mdx)
    - [Amazon Linux](../getting-started/install-memgraph/amazon-linux.mdx)
    - [Red Hat](../getting-started/install-memgraph/redhat.mdx)
    - [Rocky](../getting-started/install-memgraph/rocky.mdx)

 </Tab>
  </Tabs>

## Manage Memgraph deployment

After Memgraph is installed and running on your Azure VM, Memgraph management in
Azure VM is identical to the general guidelines that are described in the form
of a native Linux Memgraph or Docker container Memgraph. 

Depending on what you are using, you can follow the [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployment guide for more information on how to manage
the Memgraph deployment.

## Where to next? 

Memgraph also supports deployment in the Kubernetes environment. If you are
interested in deploying Memgraph in Kubernetes, you can follow the [Memgraph
Kubernetes installation
guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes.mdx). 

To discuss Azure deployment and similar topics, [join our Discord
community](https://www.discord.gg/memgraph).

Schedule a 30-min session with our engineers to discuss how Memgraph fits with
your architecture. Our engineers are highly experienced in helping companies of
all sizes to integrate and get the most out of Memgraph in their projects. Talk
to us about data modeling, optimizing queries, defining infrastructure
requirements or migrating from your existing graph database. No nonsense or
sales pitch, just tech.

![](/pages/getting-started/memgraph-office-hours.svg)

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Book a call"
    href="https://memgraph.com/office-hours"
  />
</Cards>
