pages/deployment/gcp.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploy Memgraph on Google Cloud Platform virtual machine 
description: Learn how to choose instance type, select OS, and configure the network for Memgraph deployment.
---

import { Card, Cards, Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Deploy Memgraph in the Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

This guide will show you how to deploy Memgraph on a Google virtual machine
(VM). The guide will cover only the specific bits that are different from the
general deployment guide you can find for native [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployments.

This guide assumes you have a Google Cloud Platform account and are familiar
with the Google console. If you are not, you can follow the [GCP Linux VM quick
start guide
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/create-linux-vm-instance).

## Creating a new GCP VM

The first step is to have a VM running on GCP, where you will deploy Memgraph.
Since Memgraph works nicely with Linux distributions, it is recommended to use
Linux-based VMs.

Below are some guidelines to consider if you are opening a new GCP VM for
Memgraph. 

### Picking the OS 

During the VM creation, you need to pick the OS you wish to have on the VM. If
you are going to use the Memgraph native installation, you need to pick a Linux
distribution that Memgraph supports.

Memgraph supports multiple Linux distributions. Memgraph packages for supported distributions and versions can be downloaded 
from the [following page](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux)

Running Memgraph natively will bring some speed improvements compared to the
Docker version of Memgraph. 

If you are going to use the Memgraph Docker image, pick the Linux you are most familiar with.

Memgraph in Docker can be deployed both on x86 and ARM architecture. All native
distributions work on x86 architecture. Some of the native distributions also
work on ARM architecture (Debian, Ubuntu), some do not (Centos, Fedora). Check
the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux) for
detailed information.


### Picking the VM type

When creating the VM, you need to pick the VM type. If you run
Memgraph in `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` (default mode) or in
`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` storage mode, all data is stored in RAM. That means it
would be good first to calculate [how much memory you will
need](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#calculate-storage-memory-usage). There
is also an [easy-to-use
calulator](https://memgraph.com/enterprise#ram-calculator) for approximating
memory usage. The good rule of thumb is for your server to have double the memory of what your
storage was calculated to be. You can go with less if you do not have a demanding
workload. A demanding workload would be a query that traverses half of the graph
and returns half of the graph. 


GCP has a collection of general purpose, memory-optimized, and compute-optimized
instances. For more details on the instance types, you can check the [GCP
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-resource). 

The general-purpose instances are suitable for a wide range of workloads, and
are good starting point for Memgraph deployment


The memory-optimized VMs are designed for large scale (> 1TB of RAM) in-memory
databases, data analytics, and other memory-intensive applications. If you have
a larger scale, consider using the memory-optimized instances since GCP offers
them on TB scales. If your use-case requries lower memory configurations use general purpose instances, such
as C4 family instances. 

Instances vary based on the supported architectures, number of CPU cores,
network bandwidth, block storage, etc. All hardware specs typically scale with the
instance size. Memgraph is not demanding on the rest of the hardware specs as long as there
is sufficent RAM. 

If you are running Memgraph in `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode, you need to
consider the instances [optimized for
storage](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/storage-optimized-machines).


### Network Setup

When creating the VM, you need to set up the [firewall for network access](https://cloud.google.com/firewall/docs/using-firewalls) and
inbound port rules. By default, Memgraph uses port 7687 for the Bolt
protocol. You need to open this port for TCP traffic and to allow connections to
Memgraph. 

If you change the default Bolt port, make sure to update the inbound port rules
accordingly.

Also, if deploying Memgraph for
[Replication](/clustering/replication#replication) or [High
Availability](/clustering/high-availability#high-availability-enterprise), the
ports for the replication and cluster management should also be open. 
In replication configuration each instance needs to have an open port 10000 for the
replication. In a high availability configuration, each **data instance** needs to have an open
port of 10000 for management and a port of 20000 for replication. Each **coordinator
instance***, needs to have open port 12000. 

All instances need to have open port 7687 for the Bolt protocol.

### Setup the storage 

When creating the VM, you need to set up the disk storage. By default Memgraph
stores all data to working RAM, but for the [persistency between
restarts](/fundamentals/data-durability) Memgraph uses the disk storage to store
snapshots, configurations, etc.

It is recommended to use the [Persistent Disk 
storage](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks). Persistent Disk volumes
are durable, scalable, and can be attached to the VM. They will be
persistent even if the VM is stopped and restarted. 

Faster storage (SSDs) can lead to speedier snapshot creation and recovery times,
which can be important on bigger scales (billion-sized graphs). Still, it is not
critical for the Memgraph operating performance. Magnetic storage can also be
used  
on smaller scales.

The storage size depends on the amount of data you are going to store in your
Memgraph instance and the number of active snapshots you want to keep alive.
Memgraph will periodically create snapshots of the data and store them on disk.
As the new snapshot is created, the oldest one is deleted. The number of
snapshots you want to keep alive is configurable in the Memgraph configuration
file.

The recommendation is to double the storage of the data you will store in
Memgraph. If you are going to store 100GB of data in Memgraph, you should have
at least 200GB of disk storage. 


## Installing Memgraph 

Depending on the way you want to deploy Memgraph, native or via Docker, you need
to follow the steps below: 

<Tabs items={["Docker" , "Linux"]}>

 <Tab> 
 
     If you will use the Memgraph Docker image, you need to have Docker installed on your GCP VM.

    After Docker is installed, you can pull the Memgraph image and run it:

        ```bash
        docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph:latest
        ```

    This will run Memgraph on the default port 7687. You should be able to connect
        to it via [Memgraph Lab](../data-visualization) or via [client
    libraries](../client-libraries) using the Bolt protocol. If you are experiencing issues
     while connecting to Memgraph remotely, make sure that the port 7687 is open in [the
    firewall rules on your GCP VM](#Setup-the-network). 

    For more information on how to install Memgraph via Docker, you can follow the [getting started guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/docker.mdx).

 </Tab>
 
 <Tab>

 Depending on the Linux distribution you are using, you can follow the guide for
 installing Memgraph on each distribution: 

    - [Ubuntu](../getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu.mdx)
    - [Fedora](../getting-started/install-memgraph/fedora.mdx)
    - [Debian](../getting-started/install-memgraph/debian.mdx)
    - [Centos](../getting-started/install-memgraph/centos.mdx)
    - [Amazon Linux](../getting-started/install-memgraph/amazon-linux.mdx)
    - [RedHat](../getting-started/install-memgraph/redhat.mdx)
    - [Rocky](../getting-started/install-memgraph/rocky.mdx)

 </Tab> 
 
 </Tabs>

## Manage Memgraph deployment

After Memgraph is installed and running on your GCP VM, Memgraph management in
GCP VM is identical to the general guidelines that are described in the form of
a native Linux Memgraph or Docker container Memgraph. 

Depending on what you are using, you can follow the [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployment guide for more information on how to manage
the Memgraph deployment.


## Where to next? 

Memgraph also supports deployment in the Kubernetes environment. If you are
interested in deploying Memgraph in Kubernetes, you can follow the [Memgraph
Kubernetes installation
guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes.mdx). 

To discuss GCP deployment and similar topics, [join our Discord
community](https://www.discord.gg/memgraph).

Schedule a 30-min session with our engineers to discuss how Memgraph fits with
your architecture. Our engineers are highly experienced in helping companies of
all sizes to integrate and get the most out of Memgraph in their projects. Talk
to us about data modeling, optimizing queries, defining infrastructure
requirements or migrating from your existing graph database. No nonsense or
sales pitch, just tech.

![](/pages/getting-started/memgraph-office-hours.svg)

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Book a call"
    href="https://memgraph.com/office-hours"
  />
</Cards>

Commit message:

Update deployment suggestions (#1076)
* Add Docker recommendation for deploying Memgraph

* Add guidelines for system configuration

* Requirements for Redhat

* Update pages/deployment/aws.mdx

* Update pages/deployment/azure.mdx

* Update pages/deployment/gcp.mdx

* Update Redhat to Red Hat

* Update

---------

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: katarinasupe <supe.katarina@gmail.com>

pages/deployment/gcp.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploy Memgraph on Google Cloud Platform virtual machine 
description: Learn how to choose instance type, select OS, and configure the network for Memgraph deployment.
---

import { Card, Cards, Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Deploy Memgraph in the Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

This guide will show you how to deploy Memgraph on a Google virtual machine
(VM). The guide will cover only the specific bits that are different from the
general deployment guide you can find for native [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployments.

This guide assumes you have a Google Cloud Platform account and are familiar
with the Google console. If you are not, you can follow the [GCP Linux VM quick
start guide
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/create-linux-vm-instance).

## Creating a new GCP VM

The first step is to have a VM running on GCP, where you will deploy Memgraph.
Since Memgraph works nicely with Linux distributions, it is recommended to use
Linux-based VMs.

Below are some guidelines to consider if you are opening a new GCP VM for
Memgraph. 

### Picking the OS 

During the VM creation, you need to pick the OS you wish to have on the VM. If
you are going to use the Memgraph native installation, you need to pick a Linux
distribution that Memgraph supports.

Memgraph supports multiple Linux distributions. Memgraph packages for supported distributions and versions can be downloaded 
from the [following page](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux)

Running Memgraph natively will bring some speed improvements compared to the
Docker version of Memgraph. However, deploying Memgraph with Docker is a more straightforward approach
since it comes with built-in Memgraph MAGE algorithms.
Memgraph MAGE contains graph algorithms and utility modules written in C++, Python and Rust. If you decided to run Memgraph natively, then you need to build MAGE from source, which requires manual work. For native deployment, check the guide on 
[how to build Memgraph MAGE algorithms from source](/custom-query-modules#install-mage-and-import-query-modules).
If you're trying out Memgraph for the first time, and running your own benchmarks against it, Docker is the 
recommended way to run Memgraph, as it accelerates the time to value.

If you are going to use the Memgraph Docker image, pick the Linux you are most familiar with.

Memgraph in Docker can be deployed both on x86 and ARM architecture. All native
distributions work on x86 architecture. Some of the native distributions also
work on ARM architecture (Debian, Ubuntu), some do not (Centos, Fedora). Check
the [direct download
links](/getting-started/install-memgraph/direct-download-links#linux) for
detailed information.


### Picking the VM type

When creating the VM, you need to pick the VM type. If you run
Memgraph in `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` (default mode) or in
`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` storage mode, all data is stored in RAM. That means it
would be good first to calculate [how much memory you will
need](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#calculate-storage-memory-usage). There
is also an [easy-to-use
calulator](https://memgraph.com/enterprise#ram-calculator) for approximating
memory usage. The good rule of thumb is for your server to have double the memory of what your
storage was calculated to be. You can go with less if you do not have a demanding
workload. A demanding workload would be a query that traverses half of the graph
and returns half of the graph. 


GCP has a collection of general purpose, memory-optimized, and compute-optimized
instances. For more details on the instance types, you can check the [GCP
documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-resource). 

The general-purpose instances are suitable for a wide range of workloads, and
are good starting point for Memgraph deployment


The memory-optimized VMs are designed for large scale (> 1TB of RAM) in-memory
databases, data analytics, and other memory-intensive applications. If you have
a larger scale, consider using the memory-optimized instances since GCP offers
them on TB scales. If your use-case requries lower memory configurations use general purpose instances, such
as C4 family instances. 

Instances vary based on the supported architectures, number of CPU cores,
network bandwidth, block storage, etc. All hardware specs typically scale with the
instance size. Memgraph is not demanding on the rest of the hardware specs as long as there
is sufficent RAM. 

If you are running Memgraph in `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode, you need to
consider the instances [optimized for
storage](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/storage-optimized-machines).

### System configuration

Before running Memgraph, please check the [system configuration guidelines](/database-management/system-configuration), especially the
`vm.max_map_count` parameter setting.

### Network Setup

When creating the VM, you need to set up the [firewall for network access](https://cloud.google.com/firewall/docs/using-firewalls) and
inbound port rules. By default, Memgraph uses port 7687 for the Bolt
protocol. You need to open this port for TCP traffic and to allow connections to
Memgraph. 

If you change the default Bolt port, make sure to update the inbound port rules
accordingly.

Also, if deploying Memgraph for
[Replication](/clustering/replication#replication) or [High
Availability](/clustering/high-availability#high-availability-enterprise), the
ports for the replication and cluster management should also be open. 
In replication configuration each instance needs to have an open port 10000 for the
replication. In a high availability configuration, each **data instance** needs to have an open
port of 10000 for management and a port of 20000 for replication. Each **coordinator
instance***, needs to have open port 12000. 

All instances need to have open port 7687 for the Bolt protocol.

### Setup the storage 

When creating the VM, you need to set up the disk storage. By default Memgraph
stores all data to working RAM, but for the [persistency between
restarts](/fundamentals/data-durability) Memgraph uses the disk storage to store
snapshots, configurations, etc.

It is recommended to use the [Persistent Disk 
storage](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks). Persistent Disk volumes
are durable, scalable, and can be attached to the VM. They will be
persistent even if the VM is stopped and restarted. 

Faster storage (SSDs) can lead to speedier snapshot creation and recovery times,
which can be important on bigger scales (billion-sized graphs). Still, it is not
critical for the Memgraph operating performance. Magnetic storage can also be
used  
on smaller scales.

The storage size depends on the amount of data you are going to store in your
Memgraph instance and the number of active snapshots you want to keep alive.
Memgraph will periodically create snapshots of the data and store them on disk.
As the new snapshot is created, the oldest one is deleted. The number of
snapshots you want to keep alive is configurable in the Memgraph configuration
file.

The recommendation is to double the storage of the data you will store in
Memgraph. If you are going to store 100GB of data in Memgraph, you should have
at least 200GB of disk storage. 


## Installing Memgraph 

Depending on the way you want to deploy Memgraph, native or via Docker, you need
to follow the steps below: 

<Tabs items={["Docker" , "Linux"]}>

 <Tab> 
 
     If you will use the Memgraph Docker image, you need to have Docker installed on your GCP VM.

    After Docker is installed, you can pull the Memgraph image and run it:

        ```bash
        docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph:latest
        ```

    This will run Memgraph on the default port 7687. You should be able to connect
        to it via [Memgraph Lab](../data-visualization) or via [client
    libraries](../client-libraries) using the Bolt protocol. If you are experiencing issues
     while connecting to Memgraph remotely, make sure that the port 7687 is open in [the
    firewall rules on your GCP VM](#Setup-the-network). 

    For more information on how to install Memgraph via Docker, you can follow the [getting started guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/docker.mdx).

 </Tab>
 
 <Tab>

 Depending on the Linux distribution you are using, you can follow the guide for
 installing Memgraph on each distribution: 

    - [Ubuntu](../getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu.mdx)
    - [Fedora](../getting-started/install-memgraph/fedora.mdx)
    - [Debian](../getting-started/install-memgraph/debian.mdx)
    - [Centos](../getting-started/install-memgraph/centos.mdx)
    - [Amazon Linux](../getting-started/install-memgraph/amazon-linux.mdx)
    - [Red Hat](../getting-started/install-memgraph/redhat.mdx)
    - [Rocky](../getting-started/install-memgraph/rocky.mdx)

 </Tab> 
 
 </Tabs>

## Manage Memgraph deployment

After Memgraph is installed and running on your GCP VM, Memgraph management in
GCP VM is identical to the general guidelines that are described in the form of
a native Linux Memgraph or Docker container Memgraph. 

Depending on what you are using, you can follow the [Linux](./linux.mdx) or
[Docker](./docker.mdx) deployment guide for more information on how to manage
the Memgraph deployment.


## Where to next? 

Memgraph also supports deployment in the Kubernetes environment. If you are
interested in deploying Memgraph in Kubernetes, you can follow the [Memgraph
Kubernetes installation
guide](../getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes.mdx). 

To discuss GCP deployment and similar topics, [join our Discord
community](https://www.discord.gg/memgraph).

Schedule a 30-min session with our engineers to discuss how Memgraph fits with
your architecture. Our engineers are highly experienced in helping companies of
all sizes to integrate and get the most out of Memgraph in their projects. Talk
to us about data modeling, optimizing queries, defining infrastructure
requirements or migrating from your existing graph database. No nonsense or
sales pitch, just tech.

![](/pages/getting-started/memgraph-office-hours.svg)

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Book a call"
    href="https://memgraph.com/office-hours"
  />
</Cards>
