pages/data-visualization/install-and-connect.mdx, before:

---
title: Install Memgraph Lab and connect to a database
description: Connect to your graph data with ease using Memgraph. Explore our documentation page for detailed installation instructions and learn how to establish a seamless connection, enabling powerful graph computing and analysis.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Install Memgraph Lab and connect to a database

We recommend you use the `memgraph/memgraph-platform` Docker image to install
**Memgraph Platform** and get the complete streaming graph application platform
that includes:

- **Memgraph** - the database that holds your data
- **Memgraph Lab** - visual user interface for running queries and visualizing
  graph data
- **mgconsole** - command-line interface for running queries
- **MAGE** - graph algorithms and modules library

After running the image, mgconsole will open in the terminal while Memgraph Lab
is available on `http://localhost:3000`. 

There is also a smaller
[`memgraph/memgraph-platform`](https://hub.docker.com/r/memgraph/memgraph-platform/tags?page=1)
Docker image that doesn't include MAGE - the graph algorithms and modules
library. The tag includes only `mamgraph` and `lab` keywords, for example:
`2.7.1-memgraph2.7.0-lab2.6.0`.

If you want to install Memgraph Lab as a desktop application, check out the
[installation instructions](#install-memgraph-lab-desktop-application) for
Windows, macOS and Linux, and if you have a public Memgraph database instance
you can access the Lab web application at [https://lab.memgraph.com/](https://lab.memgraph.com/).

## Install Memgraph Lab desktop application

<Steps>

{<h3>Download and install Memgraph</h3>} 

Memgraph Lab needs a [running Memgraph database instance](/getting-started).

If you installed Memgraph using Docker, and you want to be able to connect to
it with Memgraph Lab desktop application, be sure that ports 7687, used for
the instance connection (`-p 7687:7687`), and 7444, used for logs (`-p
7444:7444`) were exposed in the `docker run ...` command.

{<h3>Download Memgraph Lab</h3>}

Visit the [Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/#individual) and
download Memgraph Lab desktop application.

{<h3>Install Memgraph Lab</h3>}

You can install Memgraph Lab by double clicking the downloaded installer and
following the instructions.

If you downloaded Memgraph Lab on Linux, you can execute:

```console
sudo dpkg -i MemgraphLab-x.x.x.deb
```

{<h3>Set up connection</h3>}

After you start Memgraph Lab, you should be presented with a login
screen. 

These are the default settings:

- Leave the `Username` and `Password` fields **empty**.
- The `Host` field can be either **`localhost`**, **`127.0.0.1`** or
   **`0.0.0.0`**, or change it appropriately. 
- The `Port` field should be **`7687`**. Every Memgraph instance is listening
   on this port by default.
- The `Encrypted` option should be **disabled** and display `SSL Off` by
   default.

{<h3>Connect</h3>}

Click on connect, and you should be presented with the following dashboard:

![lab-dashboard](/pages/data-visualization/install-and-connect/lab-dashboard.png)

Congratulations! You have successfully installed Memgraph Lab and connected it
to Memgraph. You are now ready to start building your graph and querying it.

<Callout type="warning">

You might receive the following error message when trying to connect.

![failed_connection](/pages/data-visualization/install-and-connect/failed_connection.png)

In this case, make sure that Memgraph is properly up and running and that you
have entered the correct port number.

</Callout>

{<h3>Execute queries</h3>}

Now, you can execute Cypher queries on Memgraph. Open the **Query** tab, located
in the left sidebar, copy the following query and press the **Run query**
button:

```cypher
CREATE (u:User {name: "Alice"})-[:Likes]->(m:Software {name: "Memgraph"});
```

The query above will create 2 nodes in the database, one labeled "User" with
name "Alice" and the other labeled "Software" with name "Memgraph". It will also
create a relationship that "Alice" _likes_ "Memgraph".

To find created nodes and relationships, execute the following query:

```cypher
MATCH p=()-[]->() RETURN p;
```

You should get the following result:

![graph_result](/pages/data-visualization/install-and-connect/lab-graph.png)

</Steps>

## Environment variables

Use the following environment variables to configure Memgraph Lab:

| Variable        | Description    | Type           | Default |
| -------------- | -------------- | -------------- | -------- |
| APP_CYPHER_QUERY_MAX_LEN        | Max length of a Cypher query     | [`integer`]     | 5000 |
| APP_MODULE_NAME_MAX_LEN    | Max length of the query module name       | [`integer`]     | 1000 |
| APP_MODULE_CONTENT_MAX_LEN    | Max length of a query module content | [`integer`]     | 50000 |
| APP_STREAM_NAME_MAX_LEN | Max length of the stream name | [`integer`] | 500 |

Example: 

```bash
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 -v memgraph/memgraph-platform -e APP_CYPHER_QUERY_MAX_LEN=10000 memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

Commit message:

[main<] Update user manual (#385)
* update-user-manual

* image

pages/data-visualization/install-and-connect.mdx, after:

---
title: Install Memgraph Lab and connect to a database
description: Connect to your graph data with ease using Memgraph. Explore our documentation page for detailed installation instructions and learn how to establish a seamless connection, enabling powerful graph computing and analysis.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Install Memgraph Lab and connect to a database

We recommend you use the `memgraph/memgraph-platform` Docker image to install
**Memgraph Platform** and get the complete streaming graph application platform
that includes:

- **Memgraph** - the database that holds your data
- **Memgraph Lab** - visual user interface for running queries and visualizing
  graph data
- **mgconsole** - command-line interface for running queries
- **MAGE** - graph algorithms and modules library

After running the image, mgconsole will open in the terminal while Memgraph Lab
is available on `http://localhost:3000`. 

There is also a smaller
[`memgraph/memgraph-platform`](https://hub.docker.com/r/memgraph/memgraph-platform/tags?page=1)
Docker image that doesn't include MAGE - the graph algorithms and modules
library. The tag includes only `mamgraph` and `lab` keywords, for example:
`2.7.1-memgraph2.7.0-lab2.6.0`.

You can run only the Memgraph Lab web application from the Memgraph Platform image using the following command:

```
docker run -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform -c /etc/supervisor/supervisord-lab-only.conf
```

If you want to install Memgraph Lab as a desktop application, check out the
[installation instructions](#install-memgraph-lab-desktop-application) for
Windows, macOS and Linux, and if you have a public Memgraph database instance
you can access the Lab web application at [https://lab.memgraph.com/](https://lab.memgraph.com/).

## Install Memgraph Lab desktop application

<Steps>

{<h3>Download and install Memgraph</h3>} 

Memgraph Lab needs a [running Memgraph database instance](/getting-started).

If you installed Memgraph using Docker, and you want to be able to connect to
it with Memgraph Lab desktop application, be sure that ports 7687, used for
the instance connection (`-p 7687:7687`), and 7444, used for logs (`-p
7444:7444`) were exposed in the `docker run ...` command.

{<h3>Download Memgraph Lab</h3>}

Visit the [Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download/#individual) and
download Memgraph Lab desktop application.

{<h3>Install Memgraph Lab</h3>}

You can install Memgraph Lab by double clicking the downloaded installer and
following the instructions.

If you downloaded Memgraph Lab on Linux, you can execute:

```console
sudo dpkg -i MemgraphLab-x.x.x.deb
```

{<h3>Set up connection</h3>}

After you start Memgraph Lab, you should be presented with a login
screen. 

These are the default settings:

- Leave the `Username` and `Password` fields **empty**.
- The `Host` field can be either **`localhost`**, **`127.0.0.1`** or
   **`0.0.0.0`**, or change it appropriately. 
- The `Port` field should be **`7687`**. Every Memgraph instance is listening
   on this port by default.
- The `Encrypted` option should be **disabled** and display `SSL Off` by
   default.

{<h3>Connect</h3>}

Click on connect, and you should be presented with the following dashboard:

![lab-dashboard](/pages/data-visualization/install-and-connect/lab-dashboard.png)

Congratulations! You have successfully installed Memgraph Lab and connected it
to Memgraph. You are now ready to start building your graph and querying it.

<Callout type="warning">

You might receive the following error message when trying to connect.

![failed_connection](/pages/data-visualization/install-and-connect/failed_connection.png)

In this case, make sure that Memgraph is properly up and running and that you
have entered the correct port number.

</Callout>

{<h3>Execute queries</h3>}

Now, you can execute Cypher queries on Memgraph. Open the **Query** tab, located
in the left sidebar, copy the following query and press the **Run query**
button:

```cypher
CREATE (u:User {name: "Alice"})-[:Likes]->(m:Software {name: "Memgraph"});
```

The query above will create 2 nodes in the database, one labeled "User" with
name "Alice" and the other labeled "Software" with name "Memgraph". It will also
create a relationship that "Alice" _likes_ "Memgraph".

To find created nodes and relationships, execute the following query:

```cypher
MATCH p=()-[]->() RETURN p;
```

You should get the following result:

![graph_result](/pages/data-visualization/install-and-connect/lab-graph.png)

</Steps>

## Environment variables

Use the following environment variables to configure Memgraph Lab:

| Variable        | Description    | Type           | Default |
| -------------- | -------------- | -------------- | -------- |
| APP_CYPHER_QUERY_MAX_LEN        | Max length of a Cypher query     | [`integer`]     | 5000 |
| APP_MODULE_NAME_MAX_LEN    | Max length of the query module name       | [`integer`]     | 1000 |
| APP_MODULE_CONTENT_MAX_LEN    | Max length of a query module content | [`integer`]     | 50000 |
| APP_STREAM_NAME_MAX_LEN | Max length of the stream name | [`integer`] | 500 |

Example: 

```bash
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 -v memgraph/memgraph-platform -e APP_CYPHER_QUERY_MAX_LEN=10000 memgraph/memgraph-platform
```
