pages/data-visualization/user-manual.mdx, before:

# Memgraph Lab user manual

**Memgraph Lab** is a **visual user interface** that enables you to import and
export data to and from Memgraph database, write and execute Cypher queries,
visualize graph data, view and optimize query performance, develop query modules
in Python or connect to data streams. 

Here is a short overview of the Lab's interface, features it provides, and links
to resources that will help you achieve your graph goals. At the end of the
page, there is a Lab demo video from the Memgraph Cloud launch if you need more
visual input.

## Overview

Every time you open Memgraph Lab, it will greet you with an **Overview**,
offering resources and actions depending whether your database is empty or not,
and whether you ran any queries or not.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/overview.png)

At the top of the screen, you will find information about: 
- Connection status
- Memgraph version, IP address, and port of the database
- Number of nodes and relationships currently in the database
- Disk storage used, and total and available RAM 

In the top right corner, you can find the help and notification buttons. The
help section provides you with helpful documentation and links to the Memgraph
community, while the notification section is used to inform you about important
events within the Memgraph ecosystem. 

All the Memgraph Lab sections are listed in the left side menu, below which you
can find the [Layout](#layout) options and Memgraph Lab version. 

## Query Execution

In this section, you can write and run queries, as well as see their tabular or
graphical results. 

### Cypher Editor

Here is where you write and run your Cypher queries. A keyword suggestion tool
can help you with clause completion and give information about signatures and
parameters. If you need help writing Cypher queries, check out the [Cypher
manual](/querying).

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/intelisense.png)

Once you **Run** a query (by clicking a button or pressing **CTRL** +
**Enter**), you can **Cancel** it, but if the query has already reach Memgraph
database, the action won't actually stop the query's execution. In the case of
running complex algorithms on a large dataset, you need to be a bit patient and
wait for Memgraph to complete running the query. 

If the Cypher Editor contains multiple queries, you can execute a single one by
selecting it and pushing the "Run Selected". 

Here you can also copy the query to your clipboard or add it to an existing or
new query collection. 

### Graph Style Editor

The Graph Style Editor allows you to customize the visual appearance  of the
graph results by editing the System Style or create a custom style and change
the color, size, and shape of graph elements, even add pictures or backgrounds. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/gss.png)

When saving a style, the graph results of an executed query will be used as a
preview picture of the style. Custom styles can be defined as a default style
applied to all following query runs. 

Be sure to check the [GSS reference guide](/data-visualization/graph-style-script) and a
[tutorial](/data-visualization/style-your-graphs-in-memgraph-lab) on how to
style your graphs. 

### Data results 

When the query has executed or failed, below the Cypher editor, you can see a
*Query successful* message or an error. In the case of successful execution,
you can also find out query execution time, rows the query generated as well as
nodes and relationship the query returned (if any).

Depending on the results generated by the query, they can be shown in a
table, as a graph, or both.

When rendering a graph that exceeds the set rendering limits, which
might take considerable amount of time to preview, you will be asked if you want
to proceed with the graph visualization or switch to the data view.

The rendering limit can be set in the **Settings** section. 

If the Cypher Editor contains multiple queries and all of them were executed,
you can select to view the results of each separate query.

Here, you can also **Download Results** in JSON, CSV and TSV format. 

Table rows can be expanded to show additional information about entities.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/rows.png)

### Graph results

When results are shown as a graph, you can click on each node or relationship to
see additional information. You can also **Expand** a node to see its
relationships, **Collapse** a node to hide its relationships, or **Hide** the node from
the canvas. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/graph-results.png)

In the bottom left corner, you can **Enable physics**, that is, make nodes interact
with each other, by pulling away or closing in to one another, depending on the
strength of the relationships between them. 

In the top right corner of the graph you can open **Graph Preferences** and set
the collision radius that dictates the margin radius for each node from its
center, the repel force that dictates how strongly nodes repel each other, and
the link distance that dictates the minimum required distance between two
connected nodes. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/physics.png)

Another interesting feature you can use on graph data results is the map
background. This feature automatically turns on when the result nodes have
numeral `lat` and `lng` properties. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/map.png)

## Run History

Here you can search or view ran queries or applied styles, with the information
about the time of the last run, runtime and whether the execution was successful
or not. 

If the last action within the Query Execution was a query run, a clock icon will
appear next to the query. If the last action was the application of a style, a
clock icon will appear next to the style name. If the action included both the
execution of a query and the application of the style, the clock icon will
appear next to both. 

If the Query Editor includes several queries, but only one query was selected
and ran, the Query column of the Run History will show only that query, but the
full contents of the Query Editor will be previewed by expanding the row.
Expanding the Style Name column will show the Graph Style Script (GSS) code of
the style. 

In the Run History you can run rerun queries in the current or new execution
view, copy them into clipboard, and save them to an existing or new collection. 

You can filter the data to view just the query history, the style history or
both. 

You can clear the run history in the **Settings** section. 

## Collections

In the Collections section, you can gather your favorite queries so they are always
at hand.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/query-collection.png)

Queries can be added to the collection from the **Query Execution** and the **Latest
Queries** section. 

From the **Query Collections** section, you can directly run queries, copy them
into the clipboard, and save them to an existing or a new collection. 

Query collections can also be imported and exported to JSON file format. 

## Query Modules 

[Query modules](/advanced-algorithms) are
collections of procedures written in **C**, **C++**, **Python**, and **Rust**
(either `*.so` or `*.py` files) to extend the query language. Transformation
procedures necessary to ingest data from data streams are also written as query
modules. 

Some query modules are built-in, and others, like those that can help you solve
complex graph issues, are available as part of the [MAGE](/advanced-algorithms)
library you can add to your Memgraph installation. The library is already
included if you are using [Memgraph
Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph) or [Memgraph
MAGE](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage) Docker images to run Memgraph, or you are
connecting to a [Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud) instance. 

All the query modules and procedures are listed in the **Query Modules**
section. By expanding the information about each query module, you can see the
procedures it contains, as well as their signatures and examples. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/query-modules.png)

In this section, you can also implement your own custom query modules written in
Python by clicking on the **+ New Module**. A new file will open with example
procedures you can examine and learn from. Once you have written and saved the
query module, Memgraph Lab will automatically detect procedures within it, which
you can then call from queries. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/custom-query-modules.png)

If you need help writing custom query modules, check out the [reference
guide](/custom-query-modules/python/python-example),
or a [tutorial](/custom-query-modules/python/implement-custom-query-module-in-python)
on query modules. 

## Streams

In Memgraph Lab, you can connect to a data stream by running a series of Cypher
queries or you can connect to it using the **Streams** section.

Once you enter basic information about the stream, such as type, name, server
address and topics, the Streams section allows you to add an existing query
module containing transformation procedure or to write a new one in Python. 

When saving a new query module, Memgraph Lab will automatically detect
transformation procedures within it, which you can then attach to the created
stream.

Adding Kafka Configuration Parameters is also done via the Stream section, as
well as managing the connection - starting, pausing or deleting it. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/streams.png)

Check out the [reference guide on streams](/data-streams), and check [a how-to
guide on connecting to data streams](/data-streams/manage-streams-query) from
Memgraph Lab.

## Graph Schema

If you need to check the data model of the data currently in the database, you
can generate a graph schema that will show all the node types and relationships
between them.

By selecting a certain node or relationship type, Lab will provide information
about the current number of nodes or relationships of that type, as well as
percentage of existence of each property across the nodes and relationships of
that type. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/schema.png)

## Datasets

From the Datasets section, you can load interesting datasets varying in topics
and size. You can use the datasets to explore the Cypher query language and
Memgraph Lab features, or to experiment with data before you tackle your own
more complex issues.

You can check the structure of the dataset by checking its graph schema, as well
as reading the explanations of all the entities and their properties. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/dataset.png)

There are several
[tutorials](/querying/exploring-datasets) you can use to
explore the datasets available in Memgraph Lab.

## Import & Export

In this section, you can import and export data in [CYPHERL
format](/data-migration/cypherl), which represents data in the form of
Cypher queries.

To import data from other sources, check the [guides on
importing](/data-migration).

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/import-export.png)

## Logs

To be able to see logs from Memgraph Lab application you need to open port 7444
when starting Memgraph with Docker. 


![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/logs.png)

Check [how to access logs and modify logging](/configuration/logs).

You can set the number of visible logs in the **Settings** section. 

## Settings

In the Settings section you can check your unique application identification
number and the Lab version.

You can also adjust the limits after which Lab will no longer give code
completion suggestions, or automatically render graph results. 

In the settings you can also clear the run history and set the number of saved
records, as well as the number of log records. 

In the Graph Style Library you can rename or delete styles, set them as the
default style or see their code. 

## Layout

You can split the work area horizontally to work with 2 sections at the same
time, or vertically to work with up to 5 sections simultaneously. 

You can also combine the horizontal and vertical split. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/layouts.png)

## Memgraph Lab demo video

As a part of the [Memgraph Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud) release, we've showcased different
features of Memgraph Lab, and we invite you to check it out!


<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Tt5KPKylU8k?start=1390"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="autoplay; encrypted-media"
  allowFullScreen
></iframe>

If you are interested in a particular topic, below is the breakdown of the video
by the topics covered in the user manual, but there is a breakdown in the
description of the video as well:

- Overview section ([25:35](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=1534))
- Streams section ([26:25](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=1585))
- Graph schema ([38:30](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=2310))
- Query execution ([39:55](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=2395))
- MAGE query modules ([42:00](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=2520))
- GSS ([1:00:14](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=2520)) and ([1:14:20](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4460))
- Query collections ([1:08:18](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4096))
- Datasets section ([1:09:55](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4195))
- Keyword suggestion tool ([1:11:15](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4275))
- Customizing graph results ([1:12.48](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4365))
- Custom query modules ([1:27:33](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=5253))

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/data-visualization/user-manual.mdx, after:

---
title: Memgraph Lab user manual
description: Maximize your graph data analysis capabilities with Memgraph's user manual. Visit our documentation page for comprehensive instructions and gain the knowledge and insights you need to effectively use Memgraph.
---

# Memgraph Lab user manual

**Memgraph Lab** is a **visual user interface** that enables you to import and
export data to and from Memgraph database, write and execute Cypher queries,
visualize graph data, view and optimize query performance, develop query modules
in Python or connect to data streams. 

Here is a short overview of the Lab's interface, features it provides, and links
to resources that will help you achieve your graph goals. At the end of the
page, there is a Lab demo video from the Memgraph Cloud launch if you need more
visual input.

## Overview

Every time you open Memgraph Lab, it will greet you with an **Overview**,
offering resources and actions depending whether your database is empty or not,
and whether you ran any queries or not.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/overview.png)

At the top of the screen, you will find information about: 
- Connection status
- Memgraph version, IP address, and port of the database
- Number of nodes and relationships currently in the database
- Disk storage used, and total and available RAM 

In the top right corner, you can find the help and notification buttons. The
help section provides you with helpful documentation and links to the Memgraph
community, while the notification section is used to inform you about important
events within the Memgraph ecosystem. 

All the Memgraph Lab sections are listed in the left side menu, below which you
can find the [Layout](#layout) options and Memgraph Lab version. 

## Query Execution

In this section, you can write and run queries, as well as see their tabular or
graphical results. 

### Cypher Editor

Here is where you write and run your Cypher queries. A keyword suggestion tool
can help you with clause completion and give information about signatures and
parameters. If you need help writing Cypher queries, check out the [Cypher
manual](/querying).

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/intelisense.png)

Once you **Run** a query (by clicking a button or pressing **CTRL** +
**Enter**), you can **Cancel** it, but if the query has already reach Memgraph
database, the action won't actually stop the query's execution. In the case of
running complex algorithms on a large dataset, you need to be a bit patient and
wait for Memgraph to complete running the query. 

If the Cypher Editor contains multiple queries, you can execute a single one by
selecting it and pushing the "Run Selected". 

Here you can also copy the query to your clipboard or add it to an existing or
new query collection. 

### Graph Style Editor

The Graph Style Editor allows you to customize the visual appearance  of the
graph results by editing the System Style or create a custom style and change
the color, size, and shape of graph elements, even add pictures or backgrounds. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/gss.png)

When saving a style, the graph results of an executed query will be used as a
preview picture of the style. Custom styles can be defined as a default style
applied to all following query runs. 

Be sure to check the [GSS reference guide](/data-visualization/graph-style-script) and a
[tutorial](/data-visualization/style-your-graphs-in-memgraph-lab) on how to
style your graphs. 

### Data results 

When the query has executed or failed, below the Cypher editor, you can see a
*Query successful* message or an error. In the case of successful execution,
you can also find out query execution time, rows the query generated as well as
nodes and relationship the query returned (if any).

Depending on the results generated by the query, they can be shown in a
table, as a graph, or both.

When rendering a graph that exceeds the set rendering limits, which
might take considerable amount of time to preview, you will be asked if you want
to proceed with the graph visualization or switch to the data view.

The rendering limit can be set in the **Settings** section. 

If the Cypher Editor contains multiple queries and all of them were executed,
you can select to view the results of each separate query.

Here, you can also **Download Results** in JSON, CSV and TSV format. 

Table rows can be expanded to show additional information about entities.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/rows.png)

### Graph results

When results are shown as a graph, you can click on each node or relationship to
see additional information. You can also **Expand** a node to see its
relationships, **Collapse** a node to hide its relationships, or **Hide** the node from
the canvas. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/graph-results.png)

In the bottom left corner, you can **Enable physics**, that is, make nodes interact
with each other, by pulling away or closing in to one another, depending on the
strength of the relationships between them. 

In the top right corner of the graph you can open **Graph Preferences** and set
the collision radius that dictates the margin radius for each node from its
center, the repel force that dictates how strongly nodes repel each other, and
the link distance that dictates the minimum required distance between two
connected nodes. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/physics.png)

Another interesting feature you can use on graph data results is the map
background. This feature automatically turns on when the result nodes have
numeral `lat` and `lng` properties. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/map.png)

## Run History

Here you can search or view ran queries or applied styles, with the information
about the time of the last run, runtime and whether the execution was successful
or not. 

If the last action within the Query Execution was a query run, a clock icon will
appear next to the query. If the last action was the application of a style, a
clock icon will appear next to the style name. If the action included both the
execution of a query and the application of the style, the clock icon will
appear next to both. 

If the Query Editor includes several queries, but only one query was selected
and ran, the Query column of the Run History will show only that query, but the
full contents of the Query Editor will be previewed by expanding the row.
Expanding the Style Name column will show the Graph Style Script (GSS) code of
the style. 

In the Run History you can run rerun queries in the current or new execution
view, copy them into clipboard, and save them to an existing or new collection. 

You can filter the data to view just the query history, the style history or
both. 

You can clear the run history in the **Settings** section. 

## Collections

In the Collections section, you can gather your favorite queries so they are always
at hand.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/query-collection.png)

Queries can be added to the collection from the **Query Execution** and the **Latest
Queries** section. 

From the **Query Collections** section, you can directly run queries, copy them
into the clipboard, and save them to an existing or a new collection. 

Query collections can also be imported and exported to JSON file format. 

## Query Modules 

[Query modules](/advanced-algorithms) are
collections of procedures written in **C**, **C++**, **Python**, and **Rust**
(either `*.so` or `*.py` files) to extend the query language. Transformation
procedures necessary to ingest data from data streams are also written as query
modules. 

Some query modules are built-in, and others, like those that can help you solve
complex graph issues, are available as part of the [MAGE](/advanced-algorithms)
library you can add to your Memgraph installation. The library is already
included if you are using [Memgraph
Platform](/getting-started/install-memgraph) or [Memgraph
MAGE](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage) Docker images to run Memgraph, or you are
connecting to a [Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud) instance. 

All the query modules and procedures are listed in the **Query Modules**
section. By expanding the information about each query module, you can see the
procedures it contains, as well as their signatures and examples. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/query-modules.png)

In this section, you can also implement your own custom query modules written in
Python by clicking on the **+ New Module**. A new file will open with example
procedures you can examine and learn from. Once you have written and saved the
query module, Memgraph Lab will automatically detect procedures within it, which
you can then call from queries. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/custom-query-modules.png)

If you need help writing custom query modules, check out the [reference
guide](/custom-query-modules/python/python-example),
or a [tutorial](/custom-query-modules/python/implement-custom-query-module-in-python)
on query modules. 

## Streams

In Memgraph Lab, you can connect to a data stream by running a series of Cypher
queries or you can connect to it using the **Streams** section.

Once you enter basic information about the stream, such as type, name, server
address and topics, the Streams section allows you to add an existing query
module containing transformation procedure or to write a new one in Python. 

When saving a new query module, Memgraph Lab will automatically detect
transformation procedures within it, which you can then attach to the created
stream.

Adding Kafka Configuration Parameters is also done via the Stream section, as
well as managing the connection - starting, pausing or deleting it. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/streams.png)

Check out the [reference guide on streams](/data-streams), and check [a how-to
guide on connecting to data streams](/data-streams/manage-streams-query) from
Memgraph Lab.

## Graph Schema

If you need to check the data model of the data currently in the database, you
can generate a graph schema that will show all the node types and relationships
between them.

By selecting a certain node or relationship type, Lab will provide information
about the current number of nodes or relationships of that type, as well as
percentage of existence of each property across the nodes and relationships of
that type. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/schema.png)

## Datasets

From the Datasets section, you can load interesting datasets varying in topics
and size. You can use the datasets to explore the Cypher query language and
Memgraph Lab features, or to experiment with data before you tackle your own
more complex issues.

You can check the structure of the dataset by checking its graph schema, as well
as reading the explanations of all the entities and their properties. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/dataset.png)

There are several
[tutorials](/querying/exploring-datasets) you can use to
explore the datasets available in Memgraph Lab.

## Import & Export

In this section, you can import and export data in [CYPHERL
format](/data-migration/cypherl), which represents data in the form of
Cypher queries.

To import data from other sources, check the [guides on
importing](/data-migration).

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/import-export.png)

## Logs

To be able to see logs from Memgraph Lab application you need to open port 7444
when starting Memgraph with Docker. 


![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/logs.png)

Check [how to access logs and modify logging](/configuration/logs).

You can set the number of visible logs in the **Settings** section. 

## Settings

In the Settings section you can check your unique application identification
number and the Lab version.

You can also adjust the limits after which Lab will no longer give code
completion suggestions, or automatically render graph results. 

In the settings you can also clear the run history and set the number of saved
records, as well as the number of log records. 

In the Graph Style Library you can rename or delete styles, set them as the
default style or see their code. 

## Layout

You can split the work area horizontally to work with 2 sections at the same
time, or vertically to work with up to 5 sections simultaneously. 

You can also combine the horizontal and vertical split. 

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-user-manual/layouts.png)

## Memgraph Lab demo video

As a part of the [Memgraph Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud) release, we've showcased different
features of Memgraph Lab, and we invite you to check it out!


<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Tt5KPKylU8k?start=1390"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="autoplay; encrypted-media"
  allowFullScreen
></iframe>

If you are interested in a particular topic, below is the breakdown of the video
by the topics covered in the user manual, but there is a breakdown in the
description of the video as well:

- Overview section ([25:35](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=1534))
- Streams section ([26:25](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=1585))
- Graph schema ([38:30](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=2310))
- Query execution ([39:55](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=2395))
- MAGE query modules ([42:00](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=2520))
- GSS ([1:00:14](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=2520)) and ([1:14:20](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4460))
- Query collections ([1:08:18](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4096))
- Datasets section ([1:09:55](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4195))
- Keyword suggestion tool ([1:11:15](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4275))
- Customizing graph results ([1:12.48](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=4365))
- Custom query modules ([1:27:33](https://youtu.be/Tt5KPKylU8k?t=5253))
