pages/advanced-algorithms.mdx, before:

---
title: Advanced algorithms
description: Advance your graph analysis capabilities with Memgraph's tailored algorithms for optimized combinatorial queries. Begin your journey with comprehensive documentation.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'


# Advanced algorithms

If you require procedures designed to solve specific graph problems, there is a
number of advanced algorithms available in Memgraph.

[BFS](/advanced-algorithms/deep-path-traversal#breadth-first-search),
[DFS](/advanced-algorithms/deep-path-traversal#depth-first-search),
[Weighted shortest
path](/advanced-algorithms/deep-path-traversal#weighted-shortest-path),
[All shortest
paths](/advanced-algorithms/deep-path-traversal#all-shortest-paths) are
built-in deep path traversal algorithms you can run using their specific
clauses. 

For more algorithms, check the **Memgraph Advanced Graph Extensions** (**MAGE**)
library. It is an [open-source repository](https://github.com/memgraph/mage)
that contains [graph algorithms](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms)
written by the team behind Memgraph and its users in the form of query modules.
The project aims to give everyone the tools they need to tackle the most
interesting and challenging graph analytics problems.

**Query module** is a concept introduced by Memgraph and it refers to
user-defined procedures, grouped into modules that extend the Cypher query
language. Procedures are implementations of various algorithms in multiple
programming languages and they are all runnable inside Memgraph.

## Quick start

<Steps>

### Install MAGE

If you started Memgraph with the `memgraph-platform` or `memgraph-mage` Docker
image, MAGE is already included and you can skip to step 3.

If you are using Linux, you can [install MAGE from
source](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage#linux).

The execution of graph algorithms can be accelerated with the GPU by using the
[Memgraph X NVIDIA cuGraph](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage#mage--nvidia-cugraph) version of the library. 

### Load query modules

If your instance was already running when you installed MAGE, you need to
execute the following query to load them:

```
CALL mg.load_all();
```

Check [the list](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms) of available graph
algorithms and query modules.

### Call procedures

You are ready to [call procedures](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms) within
queries and tackle that graph analytics problem that's been keeping you awake. 

</Steps>

## Memgraph compatibility

With changes in Memgraph API, MAGE started to track version numbers. Check out
MAGE compatibility with Memgraph versions.

| MAGE version | Memgraph version  |
|--------------|-------------------|
| >= 1.6       | >= 2.5.2          |
| >= 1.4       | >= 2.4.0          |
| >= 1.0       | >= 2.0.0          |
| ^0           | >= 1.4.0 &lt;= 1.6.1 |


## Custom query modules

You can [create your own graph algorithms](/custom-query-modules) and query
modules using C/C++ or Python, and
[contribute](/custom-query-modules/contributing) them to the MAGE library. 


<CommunityLinks/>

Commit message:

Dynamic algos updates (#1117)
* Dynamic algos updates

* Fix typo

* update to dynamic

* typo

* typo2

* add dynamic info

* Change online algorithm links

---------

Co-authored-by: imilinovic <ivan.milinovic123@gmail.com>

pages/advanced-algorithms.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced algorithms
description: Advance your graph analysis capabilities with Memgraph's tailored algorithms for optimized combinatorial queries. Begin your journey with comprehensive documentation.
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'


# Advanced algorithms

If you require procedures designed to solve specific graph problems, there is a
number of advanced algorithms available in Memgraph.

[BFS](/advanced-algorithms/deep-path-traversal#breadth-first-search),
[DFS](/advanced-algorithms/deep-path-traversal#depth-first-search),
[Weighted shortest
path](/advanced-algorithms/deep-path-traversal#weighted-shortest-path),
[All shortest
paths](/advanced-algorithms/deep-path-traversal#all-shortest-paths) are
built-in deep path traversal algorithms you can run using their specific
clauses. 

[Dynamic graph
algorithms](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms#dynamic-graph-algorithms-enterprise)
allow you to perform real-time, scalable computations on changing data. These
algorithms have been specifically developed to handle high-speed updates and
large-scale graph changes without needing to restart the computation process.
Dynamic graph algorithms are a part of [Memgraph Enterprise
license](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise). 

For more algorithms, check the **Memgraph Advanced Graph Extensions** (**MAGE**)
library. It is an [open-source repository](https://github.com/memgraph/mage)
that contains [graph algorithms](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms)
written by the team behind Memgraph and its users in the form of query modules.
The project aims to give everyone the tools they need to tackle the most
interesting and challenging graph analytics problems.

**Query module** is a concept introduced by Memgraph and it refers to
user-defined procedures, grouped into modules that extend the Cypher query
language. Procedures are implementations of various algorithms in multiple
programming languages and they are all runnable inside Memgraph.

## Quick start

<Steps>

### Install MAGE

If you started Memgraph with the `memgraph-platform` or `memgraph-mage` Docker
image, MAGE is already included and you can skip to step 3.

If you are using Linux, you can [install MAGE from
source](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage#linux).

The execution of graph algorithms can be accelerated with the GPU by using the
[Memgraph X NVIDIA cuGraph](/advanced-algorithms/install-mage#mage--nvidia-cugraph) version of the library. 

### Load query modules

If your instance was already running when you installed MAGE, you need to
execute the following query to load them:

```
CALL mg.load_all();
```

Check [the list](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms) of available graph
algorithms and query modules.

### Call procedures

You are ready to [call procedures](/advanced-algorithms/run-algorithms) within
queries and tackle that graph analytics problem that's been keeping you awake. 

</Steps>

## Memgraph compatibility

With changes in Memgraph API, MAGE started to track version numbers. Check out
MAGE compatibility with Memgraph versions.

| MAGE version | Memgraph version  |
|--------------|-------------------|
| >= 1.6       | >= 2.5.2          |
| >= 1.4       | >= 2.4.0          |
| >= 1.0       | >= 2.0.0          |
| ^0           | >= 1.4.0 &lt;= 1.6.1 |


## Custom query modules

You can [create your own graph algorithms](/custom-query-modules) and query
modules using C/C++ or Python, and
[contribute](/custom-query-modules/contributing) them to the MAGE library. 


<CommunityLinks/>
