pages/ai-ecosystem.mdx, before:

---
title: Memgraph's AI Ecosystem
description: Explore key features, such as community detection, node embeddings, and graph neural networks, alongside integrations with popular AI libraries like LangChain and LlamaIndex, to create powerful, data-driven GenAI solutions.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'

# Memgraph's AI Ecosystem

To learn about Memgraph's key features to build AI apps, explore the following
pages:

- [GraphRAG](/ai-ecosystem/graph-rag)
- [Machine learning](/ai-ecosystem/machine-learning)


AI spans multiple areas like machine learning (ML), natural language processing
(NLP), and knowledge representation and reasoning (KRR), often overlapping to
create advanced systems. A key example is **Generative AI (GenAI)**, which generates
new content like text or images. Large Language Models (LLMs) power many GenAI
apps, but getting them to work with your custom data can be challenging.

Fine-tuning LLMs to incorporate custom data is often complex, slow, and costly.
Plus, frequent updates make it inefficient. 

**Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)** solves this by enhancing LLMs with
external data sources, enabling dynamic, scalable knowledge updates. Traditional
RAG is based on vector structure with vector databases, and it has proven to be
a great solution in many use cases. Still, it often falls short when retrieving
crucial knowledge from complex datasets. That is where GraphRAG excels.

**GraphRAG** improves on this by using knowledge graphs and graph features (e.g.,
community detection, neighborhood analysis) for more accurate retrieval and
data-rich insights. This hybrid approach provides better context and performance
for GenAI applications. 

Memgraph has been a popular choice in AI, especially for cases that utilize
[machine learning](/ai-ecosystem/machine-learning). It also proves to be a great
choice to build a [GraphRAG](/ai-ecosystem/graph-rag). 

<CommunityLinks/>

Commit message:

Restructure AI docs (#1102)
* Restructure AI docs

* update

* First round of updates

* add retrieval

* update graphrag

* update prerequisites

* update retrieval

* add img placeholder

* add examples and demos

* change header

* add anchors

* add centrality measures

* update callout

* add kg creation

* small updates

* apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>

* fixes

* Move images

* Add images

* update style

* update grapchat docs

* update styling

* update

* add redirect

* final updates

* small fixes

* change title

---------

Co-authored-by: matea16 <mateapesic@hotmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Matea Pesic <80577904+matea16@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/ai-ecosystem.mdx, after:

---
title: Memgraph's AI ecosystem
description: Explore key features, such as community detection, node embeddings, and graph neural networks, alongside integrations with popular AI libraries like LangChain and LlamaIndex, to create powerful, data-driven GenAI solutions.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'

# Memgraph's AI ecosystem

AI drives a wide range of innovations, from machine learning (ML) models to
natural language processing (NLP) systems and beyond. These technologies
frequently intersect, enabling the creation of powerful applications with
Generative AI (GenAI), including advanced chatbots and agents.

## What You'll Find Here

This section of Memgraph’s documentation is your guide to using Memgraph for AI:

- [Building GenAI apps with GraphRAG](/ai-ecosystem/graph-rag): See how knowledge graphs enable more
  efficient and scalable RAG systems.
- [AI integrations with Memgraph](/ai-ecosystem/integrations): We have several integrations with popular
  AI frameworks to help you customize and build your own GenAI application from
  scratch. Some of the libraries that support Memgraph
  include **LangChain** and **LlamaIndex**.
- [GraphChat in Memgraph Lab](/ai-ecosystem/graphchat): Explore how natural language querying
  (GraphChat) ties into the GraphRAG ecosystem, making complex graphs accessible
  to everyone.
- [Machine learning with Memgraph](/ai-ecosystem/machine-learning): Learn how Memgraph powers ML workflows
  with graph-powered insights.

<CommunityLinks/>
