---
title: Memgraph's AI Ecosystem
description: Explore key features, such as community detection, node embeddings, and graph neural networks, alongside integrations with popular AI libraries like LangChain and LlamaIndex, to create powerful, data-driven GenAI solutions.
---

import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Memgraph's AI Ecosystem

To learn about Memgraph's key features to build AI apps, explore the following
pages:

- [GraphRAG](/ai-ecosystem/machine-learning)
- [Machine learning](/ai-ecosystem/graph-rag)

**Artificial intelligence (AI)** involves various areas, such as machine
learning (ML), natural language processing (NLP) and knowledge representation
and reasoning (KRR), each focusing on different aspects and strategies for
creating intelligent systems. Usually, these areas overlap, which leads to the
development of more advanced AI systems. One example of such overlap is
**Generative AI (GenAI)**. 

GenAI focuses on developing AI systems to generate new content, such as text or
images. **Large language models (LLMs)** are a core technology to power many
GenAI apps. LLMs are trained on massive datasets and understand and generate
natural language. Still, if you want the LLM to understand your custom data,
then you need to find the best way to transfer that knowledge to the LLM.

One way of doing that is **fine-tuning**, which can be hard to set up, slow to
get it up and running, and expensive. Also, if the knowledge you want to
transfer is growing, fine-tuning would have to be a repeatable process, which
isn't viable.

That is where **retrieval augmented generation (RAG)** came to the rescue. RAG
enhances GenAI and aims to improve LLMs' accuracy and personalization by
augmenting them with external data sources that the LLM doesn't know by default.
It is easy to setup, flexible, and scalable, and it supports dynamic knowledge
updates.

Traditional RAG systems are enhancing GenAI, but they often fall short when
retrieving crucial knowledge from **complex datasets**. That is where GraphRAG
excels. **GraphRAG** is a type of RAG that utilizes knowledge graphs and graph
features (e.g., finding communities and analyzing neighborhoods) to enhance
retrieval. When other data structures are used in combination, it's sometimes
called HybridRAG.

By using a graph-based or hybrid approach to retrieval, GenAI applications can
access more structured, contextually rich, and relational data, leading to
better performance, more accurate generation, and richer insights.

Memgraph has been a popular choice in AI, especially for cases that utilize
[machine learning](/ai-ecosystem/machine-learning). It also proves to be a great
choice to build a [GraphRAG](/ai-ecosystem/graph-rag). 

