pages/clustering.mdx, before:

---
title: Clustering
description: Learn all about replication and high availability features in Memgraph.
---

# Clustering

To create a cluster, you can [replicate data](/clustering/replication) across
several instances. One instance is the MAIN instance and others are either SYNC
or ASYNC replicas. With Memgraph Community, to achieve high availability, you
need to manage automatic failover. On the other hand, Memgraph Enterprise has
[high availability](/clustering/high-availability) feature included in the
offering to ease the management of Memgraph cluster. In such case, the cluster
consists of MAIN instance, REPLICA instances and COORDINATOR instances which,
backed up by Raft protocol, manage the cluster state. 


## [High availability](/clustering/high-availability)

Learn how to utilize high availability feature and all the important under the hood information.

## [Replication](/clustering/replication) 

Learn how replication is achieved in Memgraph and how to set it up.

### [Experimental replication](/clustering/replication/experimental-replication)

Experiemental replication includes system data (authentication/authorization
data and multi-tenant setup data) along with the user data.

Commit message:

Add info about data replication in analytical storage mode

pages/clustering.mdx, after:

---
title: Clustering
description: Learn all about replication and high availability features in Memgraph.
---

# Clustering

To create a cluster, you can [replicate data](/clustering/replication) across
several instances. One instance is the MAIN instance and others are either SYNC
or ASYNC replicas. With Memgraph Community, to achieve high availability, you
need to manage automatic failover. On the other hand, Memgraph Enterprise has
[high availability](/clustering/high-availability) feature included in the
offering to ease the management of Memgraph cluster. In such case, the cluster
consists of MAIN instance, REPLICA instances and COORDINATOR instances which,
backed up by Raft protocol, manage the cluster state. 

Replication and high availability currently **work only in the in-memory
transactional [storage mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage)**.


## [High availability](/clustering/high-availability)

Learn how to utilize high availability feature and all the important under the hood information.

## [Replication](/clustering/replication) 

Learn how replication is achieved in Memgraph and how to set it up.

### [Experimental replication](/clustering/replication/experimental-replication)

Experiemental replication includes system data (authentication/authorization
data and multi-tenant setup data) along with the user data.
