pages/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration features

The following features enable you smooth configuration and monitoring of your
instances. 

## [Audit log](/configuration/audit-log)

Memgraph supports all query audit logging. When enabled, the audit log contains
records of all queries executed on the database.

## [Auth module](/configuration/auth-module)

Authentication modules play a crucial role in ensuring the security and
integrity of systems by preventing unauthorized access.

## [Configuration settings](/configuration/configuration-settings)

Memgraph can be configured by editing the Memgraph configuration file or by
including another configuration file.

## [Data durability and backup](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup) 

Memgraph uses snapshots and WAL to ensure the durability of the stored data and
it comes with a couple of queries that allow you to safely make a backup of
these files.

## [Enabling Memgraph Enterprise](/configuration/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) 

Check how to enable Memgraph Enterprise to get access to advanced security
features and multi-tenancy. 

## [Exposing system metrics](/configuration/exposing-system-metrics)

In production systems, monitoring of applications is crucial, and that includes
databases as well. Memgraph allows tracking information about transactions,
query latencies, snapshot recovery latencies, triggers, bolt messages, indexes,
streams, and many more using an HTTP server.

## [LDAP security](/configuration/ldap-security)

For the purpose of supporting LDAP authentication and (optional)
authorization, we have built an auth module that is packaged with Memgraph
Enterprise. 

## [Logs](/configuration/logs)

Check how to access logs and change log tracking level. 

## [Metadata](/configuration/metadata)

Bolt protocol specifies additional data (metadata) that can be sent along with
the requested results. Find out how to access it.

## [Monitoring server](/configuration/monitoring-server)

Receive logs and runtime information from Memgraph in real-time via WebSocket connection.

## [Multi-tenancy](/configuration/multi-tenancy)

Multi-tenant support in Memgraph enables users to manage multiple isolated
databases within a single instance. The primary objective is to facilitate
efficient resource isolation, maintain data integrity, and manage access for
different clients.

## [Replication](/configuration/replication)

Memgraph comes with a couple of queries that allow you to safely make a backup
of the files containing its data. Memgraph supports replication and allows you
to create a cluster of nodes running Memgraph instances.

## [Security](/configuration/security)

Memgraph comes with the option of granting, denying, or revoking a certain set
of privileges to users or groups of users.

## [Server stats](/configuration/server-stats)

Get information about the running instance. 

## [SSL encryption](/configuration/ssl-encryption)

Memgraph uses SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) protocol for establishing an
authenticated and encrypted connection to a database instance.

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/configuration.md, after:

---
title: Configuration features
description: Configure Memgraph to suit your graph project needs by accessing our comprehensive documentation. These features will ensure seamless configuration and monitoring of your instances. 
---

# Configuration features

The following features enable you smooth configuration and monitoring of your
instances. 

## [Audit log](/configuration/audit-log)

Memgraph supports all query audit logging. When enabled, the audit log contains
records of all queries executed on the database.

## [Auth module](/configuration/auth-module)

Authentication modules play a crucial role in ensuring the security and
integrity of systems by preventing unauthorized access.

## [Configuration settings](/configuration/configuration-settings)

Memgraph can be configured by editing the Memgraph configuration file or by
including another configuration file.

## [Data durability and backup](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup) 

Memgraph uses snapshots and WAL to ensure the durability of the stored data and
it comes with a couple of queries that allow you to safely make a backup of
these files.

## [Enabling Memgraph Enterprise](/configuration/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) 

Check how to enable Memgraph Enterprise to get access to advanced security
features and multi-tenancy. 

## [Exposing system metrics](/configuration/exposing-system-metrics)

In production systems, monitoring of applications is crucial, and that includes
databases as well. Memgraph allows tracking information about transactions,
query latencies, snapshot recovery latencies, triggers, bolt messages, indexes,
streams, and many more using an HTTP server.

## [LDAP security](/configuration/ldap-security)

For the purpose of supporting LDAP authentication and (optional)
authorization, we have built an auth module that is packaged with Memgraph
Enterprise. 

## [Logs](/configuration/logs)

Check how to access logs and change log tracking level. 

## [Metadata](/configuration/metadata)

Bolt protocol specifies additional data (metadata) that can be sent along with
the requested results. Find out how to access it.

## [Monitoring server](/configuration/monitoring-server)

Receive logs and runtime information from Memgraph in real-time via WebSocket connection.

## [Multi-tenancy](/configuration/multi-tenancy)

Multi-tenant support in Memgraph enables users to manage multiple isolated
databases within a single instance. The primary objective is to facilitate
efficient resource isolation, maintain data integrity, and manage access for
different clients.

## [Replication](/configuration/replication)

Memgraph comes with a couple of queries that allow you to safely make a backup
of the files containing its data. Memgraph supports replication and allows you
to create a cluster of nodes running Memgraph instances.

## [Security](/configuration/security)

Memgraph comes with the option of granting, denying, or revoking a certain set
of privileges to users or groups of users.

## [Server stats](/configuration/server-stats)

Get information about the running instance. 

## [SSL encryption](/configuration/ssl-encryption)

Memgraph uses SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) protocol for establishing an
authenticated and encrypted connection to a database instance.
