pages/database-management.md, before:

---
title: Database management
description: Learn how to manage your Memgraph instance and utilize its features.
---

# Database management

Learn how to configure, manage and monitor your Memgraph instance. 

## [Authentication and authorization](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization)

Memgraph supports managing users and roles as well as role-based and fine-grained access control. It supports integration with third-party authentication systems such as LDAP, SAML, and OIDC.

## [Backup and restore](/database-management/backup-and-restore) 

Memgraph uses snapshots and WAL to ensure the durability of the stored data.
Learn how to safely backup and restore your data.

## [Clustering](/clustering)

Memgraph uses replication to distribute data across several instances. Memgraph Enterprise offers the high availability feature to ease the management of Memgraph cluster.

## [Configuration](/database-management/configuration)

Memgraph has a set of configuration options that can be fine-tuned for specific
needs. 

## [Enabling Memgraph Enterprise](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) 

Check how to enable Memgraph Enterprise to get access to advanced features. 

## [Logs](/database-management/logs)

Check how to access logs and change log tracking level. Learn about query audit logging in Memgraph Enterprise.

## [Monitoring](database-management/monitoring)

Receive logs and runtime information from Memgraph in real-time using a
WebSocket or HTTP server.

## [Multi-tenancy](/database-management/multi-tenancy)

Multi-tenant support in Memgraph Enterprise enables users to manage multiple
isolated databases within a single instance. The primary objective is to
facilitate efficient resource isolation, maintain data integrity, and manage
access for different clients.

## [Query metadata](/database-management/query-metadata)

Bolt protocol specifies additional data (metadata) that can be sent along with
the requested results. Find out how to access it.

## [Server stats](/database-management/server-stats)

Get the version, storage and build information about the running instance. 

## [SSL encryption](/database-management/ssl-encryption)

Memgraph uses SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) protocol for establishing an
authenticated and encrypted connection to a database instance.

## [System configuration](/database-management/system-configuration)

Improving Memgraph's efficiency may occasionally require fine-tuning settings at
the operating system level. Such modifications are directly related to the rules
that control resource distribution and the management of processes.

Commit message:

Add vector search to the experimental page (#1051)

pages/database-management.md, after:

---
title: Database management
description: Learn how to manage your Memgraph instance and utilize its features.
---

# Database management

Learn how to configure, manage and monitor your Memgraph instance. 

## [Authentication and authorization](/database-management/authentication-and-authorization)

Memgraph supports managing users and roles as well as role-based and fine-grained access control. It supports integration with third-party authentication systems such as LDAP, SAML, and OIDC.

## [Backup and restore](/database-management/backup-and-restore) 

Memgraph uses snapshots and WAL to ensure the durability of the stored data.
Learn how to safely backup and restore your data.

## [Clustering](/clustering)

Memgraph uses replication to distribute data across several instances. Memgraph Enterprise offers the high availability feature to ease the management of Memgraph cluster.

## [Configuration](/database-management/configuration)

Memgraph has a set of configuration options that can be fine-tuned for specific
needs. 

## [Enabling Memgraph Enterprise](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise) 

Check how to enable Memgraph Enterprise to get access to advanced features. 

## [Experimental features](/database-management/experimental-features) 

Experimental features in Memgraph represent the forefront of our innovation, offering cutting-edge functionality as we continuously enhance our product. Learn how to try them out.

## [Logs](/database-management/logs)

Check how to access logs and change log tracking level. Learn about query audit logging in Memgraph Enterprise.

## [Monitoring](database-management/monitoring)

Receive logs and runtime information from Memgraph in real-time using a
WebSocket or HTTP server.

## [Multi-tenancy](/database-management/multi-tenancy)

Multi-tenant support in Memgraph Enterprise enables users to manage multiple
isolated databases within a single instance. The primary objective is to
facilitate efficient resource isolation, maintain data integrity, and manage
access for different clients.

## [Query metadata](/database-management/query-metadata)

Bolt protocol specifies additional data (metadata) that can be sent along with
the requested results. Find out how to access it.

## [Server stats](/database-management/server-stats)

Get the version, storage and build information about the running instance. 

## [SSL encryption](/database-management/ssl-encryption)

Memgraph uses SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) protocol for establishing an
authenticated and encrypted connection to a database instance.

## [System configuration](/database-management/system-configuration)

Improving Memgraph's efficiency may occasionally require fine-tuning settings at
the operating system level. Such modifications are directly related to the rules
that control resource distribution and the management of processes.
