pages/data-migration.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
 
# Data migration

Where is the data you want to migrate?
- [CSV files](#csv-files)
- [JSON files](#json-files)
- [CYPHERL files](#cypherl-files)
- [Neo4j](#neo4j)
- [Data from an application or a program](#data-from-an-application-or-a-program)
- [Relational database management system](#rdbms)
- [In a stream](#data-from-a-stream)
- [Parquet, ORC or IPC/Feather/Arrow file](#parquet-orc-or-ipcfeatherarrow-file)
- [NetworkX, PyG or DGL graph](#networkx-pyg-or-dgl-graph)

<Callout>

If you can choose the format of the data you want to import, the fastest way to
import data into Memgraph is from a [CSV file](/data-migration/csv) using the
LOAD CSV clause. 

</Callout>

## CSV files

To import data from [CSV files](/data-migration/csv) into Memgraph, use the LOAD
CSV clause, which is used as a standard Cypher clause, and can be invoked
straight from a running Memgraph instance.

## JSON files

You can import data from a [JSON file](/data-migration/json) into Memgraph
by using the [`json_util` query
module](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/json_util), which contains
procedures for loading JSON file from a local file and from a remote address.

You can also use the [`import_util.json`
procedure](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/import_util#jsonpath) to
import data from a local JSON file, but the file needs to in a specific format
defined by the procedure. 

## CYPHERL files

If your data is in the form of Cypher queries (`CREATE` and `MERGE` clauses)
within a CYPHERL file it can be [imported via Memgraph
Lab or mgconsole](/data-migration/cypherl).

## Neo4j

Export the data into a CSV file and import it into Memgraph using the LOAD CSV
clause, like in this [example](/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j). 

## Data from an application or a program

Memgraph offers a [wide range of client libraries](/client-libraries) that
can be used to connect directly to the platform and import data.

## Relational database management systems [#rdbms]

Ideally, export data into a CSV file, [remodeled the
data](/fundamentals/graph-modeling) and rewrite the CSV file, then import it
into Memgraph using the LOAD CSV clause, like in this
[example](/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms). 

Alternatively, you can use the [`migration`
module](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/migrate) from the MAGE graph
library which allows you to access data from a MySQL database, an SQL server or
an Oracle database. 

## Data from a stream

Memgraph comes with full streaming support, and you can connect directly to a
Kafka, Redpanda or Pulsar stream using [Cypher
queries](/data-streams/manage-streams-query) or [Memgraph
Lab](/data-streams/manage-streams-lab).

## Parquet, ORC or IPC/Feather/Arrow file

If you are a Python user you can import Parquet, ORC or IPC/Feather/Arrow file
into Memgraph using [GQLAlchemy](https://github.com/memgraph/gqlalchemy).

## NetworkX, PyG or DGL graph

If you are a Python user you can import NetworkX, PyG or DGL graph into Memgraph
using [GQLAlchemy](https://github.com/memgraph/gqlalchemy).

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/data-migration.mdx, after:

---
title: Data migration
description: Master the process of data migration with Memgraph. In-depth documentation outlining the necessary steps for effective graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
 
# Data migration

Where is the data you want to migrate?
- [CSV files](#csv-files)
- [JSON files](#json-files)
- [CYPHERL files](#cypherl-files)
- [Neo4j](#neo4j)
- [Data from an application or a program](#data-from-an-application-or-a-program)
- [Relational database management system](#rdbms)
- [In a stream](#data-from-a-stream)
- [Parquet, ORC or IPC/Feather/Arrow file](#parquet-orc-or-ipcfeatherarrow-file)
- [NetworkX, PyG or DGL graph](#networkx-pyg-or-dgl-graph)

<Callout>

If you can choose the format of the data you want to import, the fastest way to
import data into Memgraph is from a [CSV file](/data-migration/csv) using the
LOAD CSV clause. 

</Callout>

## CSV files

To import data from [CSV files](/data-migration/csv) into Memgraph, use the LOAD
CSV clause, which is used as a standard Cypher clause, and can be invoked
straight from a running Memgraph instance.

## JSON files

You can import data from a [JSON file](/data-migration/json) into Memgraph
by using the [`json_util` query
module](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/json_util), which contains
procedures for loading JSON file from a local file and from a remote address.

You can also use the [`import_util.json`
procedure](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/import_util#jsonpath) to
import data from a local JSON file, but the file needs to in a specific format
defined by the procedure. 

## CYPHERL files

If your data is in the form of Cypher queries (`CREATE` and `MERGE` clauses)
within a CYPHERL file it can be [imported via Memgraph
Lab or mgconsole](/data-migration/cypherl).

## Neo4j

Export the data into a CSV file and import it into Memgraph using the LOAD CSV
clause, like in this [example](/data-migration/migrate-from-neo4j). 

## Data from an application or a program

Memgraph offers a [wide range of client libraries](/client-libraries) that
can be used to connect directly to the platform and import data.

## Relational database management systems [#rdbms]

Ideally, export data into a CSV file, [remodeled the
data](/fundamentals/graph-modeling) and rewrite the CSV file, then import it
into Memgraph using the LOAD CSV clause, like in this
[example](/data-migration/migrate-from-rdbms). 

Alternatively, you can use the [`migration`
module](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/migrate) from the MAGE graph
library which allows you to access data from a MySQL database, an SQL server or
an Oracle database. 

## Data from a stream

Memgraph comes with full streaming support, and you can connect directly to a
Kafka, Redpanda or Pulsar stream using [Cypher
queries](/data-streams/manage-streams-query) or [Memgraph
Lab](/data-streams/manage-streams-lab).

## Parquet, ORC or IPC/Feather/Arrow file

If you are a Python user you can import Parquet, ORC or IPC/Feather/Arrow file
into Memgraph using [GQLAlchemy](https://github.com/memgraph/gqlalchemy).

## NetworkX, PyG or DGL graph

If you are a Python user you can import NetworkX, PyG or DGL graph into Memgraph
using [GQLAlchemy](https://github.com/memgraph/gqlalchemy).
