pages/data-visualization.mdx, before:

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Data visualization in Memgraph Lab

**Memgraph Lab** is a lightweight and intuitive **visual user interface** that
enables you to:

- visualize graph data using [the Orb library](https://github.com/memgraph/orb)
- write and execute Cypher queries
- import and export data
- manage stream connections
- view and optimize query performance
- develop query modules in Python

It was designed to help you with every stage of your learning process and graph
development.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-graph.png)

## Quick start

If you would like to query a running Memgraph database instance using **Memgraph
Lab**, be sure to:

<Steps>

### Install Memgraph Platform or Memgraph Lab

We recommend you [install **Memgraph
Platform**](/getting-started/install-memgraph) and get the complete streaming
graph application platform that includes **Memgraph database**, command-line
tool **mgconsole**, visual user interface **Memgraph Lab** running at
`http://localhost:3000` and **MAGE** - graph algorithms and modules library.

Youu can [install Memgraph Lab as a desktop
application](/data-visualization/install-and-connect#install-memgraph-lab-desktop-application)
on Windows, macOS or Linux, and if you have a public Memgraph database instance,
the web application is available at https://lab.memgraph.com/. 

### Connect to Memgraph

Connect Memgraph Lab to Memgraph and query the data using [Cypher
queries](/querying), enhanced with [advanced algorithms](/advanced-algorithms)
from the MAGE graph algorithms library.

### Check out Graph Style Script

To give your graphs a bit more pizzazz, dive into the [Graph Style Script
language](/data-visualization/graph-style-script) and learn how to customize the visual
appearance of your graphs to make them truly remarkable.

</Steps>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/data-visualization.mdx, after:

---
title: Data visualization in Memgraph Lab
description: Unlock the power of data visualization with Memgraph. Our documentation page provides detailed instructions on how to visualize your graph data, enabling you to gain valuable insights and make informed decisions
---

import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Data visualization in Memgraph Lab

**Memgraph Lab** is a lightweight and intuitive **visual user interface** that
enables you to:

- visualize graph data using [the Orb library](https://github.com/memgraph/orb)
- write and execute Cypher queries
- import and export data
- manage stream connections
- view and optimize query performance
- develop query modules in Python

It was designed to help you with every stage of your learning process and graph
development.

![](/pages/data-visualization/lab-graph.png)

## Quick start

If you would like to query a running Memgraph database instance using **Memgraph
Lab**, be sure to:

<Steps>

### Install Memgraph Platform or Memgraph Lab

We recommend you [install **Memgraph
Platform**](/getting-started/install-memgraph) and get the complete streaming
graph application platform that includes **Memgraph database**, command-line
tool **mgconsole**, visual user interface **Memgraph Lab** running at
`http://localhost:3000` and **MAGE** - graph algorithms and modules library.

Youu can [install Memgraph Lab as a desktop
application](/data-visualization/install-and-connect#install-memgraph-lab-desktop-application)
on Windows, macOS or Linux, and if you have a public Memgraph database instance,
the web application is available at https://lab.memgraph.com/. 

### Connect to Memgraph

Connect Memgraph Lab to Memgraph and query the data using [Cypher
queries](/querying), enhanced with [advanced algorithms](/advanced-algorithms)
from the MAGE graph algorithms library.

### Check out Graph Style Script

To give your graphs a bit more pizzazz, dive into the [Graph Style Script
language](/data-visualization/graph-style-script) and learn how to customize the visual
appearance of your graphs to make them truly remarkable.

</Steps>
