pages/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started with Memgraph
description: Just beginning with Memgraph? Access our structured guide to set up your environment, learn basic operations, and start utilizing graph computing to its fullest.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import CSharp from '/components/icons/CSharp'
import Cpp from '/components/icons/Cpp'
import Go from '/components/icons/Go'
import Graphql from '/components/icons/Graphql'
import Haskell from '/components/icons/Haskell'
import Java from '/components/icons/Java'
import JavaScript from '/components/icons/JavaScript'
import NodeJS from '/components/icons/NodeJS'
import PHP from '/components/icons/PHP'
import Python from '/components/icons/Python'
import Ruby from '/components/icons/Ruby'
import Rust from '/components/icons/Rust'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Getting started with Memgraph

Get Memgraph up and running on your data by following these installation steps
for **Docker environment**. If you're new to Memgraph or you're in a developing
stage, we recommend [installing Memgraph
Platform](/getting-started#install-memgraph-platform). Besides the database,
you'll also have all the tools you might need to analyze your data, such as
command-line interface [mgconsole](/getting-started/cli), web interface
[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization) and a complete set of algorithms within a
[MAGE](/advanced-algorithms) library running.

<Callout type="info">
Memgraph Platform is no longer a single-container application. Before (Memgraph
< 2.14), Memgraph Platform was a separate Docker image released on Docker Hub.
This image is no longer supported, because having database service and client
service in the same container is not a good practice. Still, with Memgraph Lab
being released on Docker Hub, it is possible to run Memgraph MAGE and Lab as two
separate services, and in that way, running Memgraph Platform as a
multi-container application with [Docker
Compose](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose).
</Callout>

## Install Memgraph Platform

If you want to quickly try out **Memgraph Platform** (Memgraph database + MAGE
library + Memgraph Lab) for the first time, do the following:

<Steps>

{<h3>Install Docker</h3>}
Ensure [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) is running in the
background. 

{<h3>Run Memgraph Platform</h3>}
Depending on your operating system, execute the appropriate command
in the console:

<Tabs items={['Linux/macOS', 'Windows']}>
<Tab>
<CodeSnippet code="curl https://install.memgraph.com | sh" page="getting-started" os="linux/macOS"/>
</Tab>
<Tab>
<CodeSnippet code="iwr https://windows.memgraph.com | iex" page="getting-started" os="windows"/>
</Tab>
</Tabs>

The above command runs a script that downloads a [Docker Compose
file](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph-platform/blob/main/docker-compose.yml)
to your system, builds and starts `memgraph-mage` and `memgraph-lab` Docker
services in two separate containers. The Docker Compose file is downloaded into
a folder called `memgraph-platform` usually located inside the user folder, e.g.
`/Users/katelatte/memgraph-platform`. You'll see the message during the download
process, similar to:
 
 ```
 -e Downloading docker compose file to: /Users/katelatte/memgraph-platform/docker-compose.yml
 ```

To manage the containers with Docker Compose, position yourself into the
`memgraph-platform` folder. Most commonly used commands are `docker compose
start`, `stop`, `down` and `restart`. The running containers can be managed with
Docker as well. To learn how to do that, follow the [First steps with Docker
guide](/getting-started/first-steps-with-docker).
</Steps>

The above installation process is a quick start, but make sure you explore
[other installation options](/getting-started/install-memgraph) and choose the
preferred way of running Memgraph in your environment.
 
## Connect to the database
 
You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
mgconsole by running the following command in a new terminal:

```terminal
# use `docker ps` to get the Memgraph container id for memgraph-mage
docker exec -ti <container-id> mgconsole
```

When the mgconsole starts, you can query the database. 

Alternatively, you can connect to Memgraph using the [Memgraph Lab web
application](/data-visualization#quick-start) available on `localhost:3000` or
as a [Desktop app](https://memgraph.com/download#individual). 

![](/pages/getting-started/lab.png)


## Import and query data

As a new user, you'll want to populate your fresh Memgraph installation with
data. The method you choose will largely depend on the format of your data.
Memgraph supports imports from various formats, such as CSV, JSON and using
queries listed in a CYPHERL file. For detailed instructions on migrating your
data, refer to the [data migration documentation](/data-migration).

If you're just getting started and want a quick setup, Memgraph offers a range
of pre-made datasets ideal for testing and learning. We have prepared more than
20 datasets you can use for testing and learning. If you wish to use a demo
dataset, go to **Datasets** section, chose a dataset and **Load dataset**.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-datasets.png)

Now that the data is imported it is time to run your first Cypher query. Go to
the  **Query Execution** section in the sidebar, and then copy-and-paste the
following code into the **Cypher editor**.

```cypher

MATCH (n)-[r]-(m)
RETURN n, r, m;

```

Click **Run query** to run the above query that will return all the nodes and
relationships in the database and see the result in the **Graph results** tab.

This an example using one of the preloaded datasets:

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-first-cypher-query.png)

If you're transitioning from Neo4j to Memgraph, adapting your existing Cypher
queries is essential. While both platforms use the Cypher query language, there
might be platform-specific features that require adjustments. To assist you, we
provide a [comprehensive documentation](/querying) to help you adapt and
optimize your queries for Memgraph.

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the following [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

## Run advanced algorithms

Memgraph offers a range of procedures tailored to address specific graph
problems. Built-in deep path traversal algorithms such as BFS, DFS, Weighted
shortest path, and All shortest paths can be executed using their specific
clauses. 

Memgraph comes with expanded set of algorithms called [Memgraph Advanced Graph
Extensions (MAGE)](/advanced-algorithms) library. MAGE is an open-source
repository housing graph algorithms, both by the Memgraph team and the
community. These are presented as query modules. 

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/query-modules.png)

One of the advanced algorithms at your disposal is the PageRank algorithm. You
can run it with the folowing code:

```cypher

CALL pagerank.get()
YIELD node, rank;

```

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/pagerank-results.png)



## Join the Memgraph community

If you have questions regarding Memgraph or want to provide feedback, [join our
Discord](https://www.discord.gg/memgraph) community.

If you prefer a call, schedule a 30 min session with one of our engineers to
discuss how Memgraph fits with your architecture. Our engineers are highly
experienced in helping companies of all sizes to integrate and get the most out
of Memgraph in their projects. Talk to us about data modeling, optimizing
queries, defining infrastructure requirements or migrating from your existing
graph database. No nonsense or sales pitch, just tech.

![](/pages/getting-started/memgraph-office-hours.svg)

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Book a call"
    href="https://memgraph.com/office-hours"
  />
</Cards>

Commit message:

Add mgconsole with docker examples  (#994)
* Introduce mgconsole container.

* Fixes.

* Update flow.

* Updated based on review.

* Updates based on review.

* Typo.

---------

Co-authored-by: Katarina Supe <61758502+katarinasupe@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started with Memgraph
description: Just beginning with Memgraph? Access our structured guide to set up your environment, learn basic operations, and start utilizing graph computing to its fullest.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import CSharp from '/components/icons/CSharp'
import Cpp from '/components/icons/Cpp'
import Go from '/components/icons/Go'
import Graphql from '/components/icons/Graphql'
import Haskell from '/components/icons/Haskell'
import Java from '/components/icons/Java'
import JavaScript from '/components/icons/JavaScript'
import NodeJS from '/components/icons/NodeJS'
import PHP from '/components/icons/PHP'
import Python from '/components/icons/Python'
import Ruby from '/components/icons/Ruby'
import Rust from '/components/icons/Rust'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Getting started with Memgraph

Get Memgraph up and running on your data by following these installation steps
for **Docker environment**. If you're new to Memgraph or you're in a developing
stage, we recommend [installing Memgraph
Platform](/getting-started#install-memgraph-platform). Besides the database,
you'll also have all the tools you might need to analyze your data, such as
command-line interface [mgconsole](/getting-started/cli), web interface
[Memgraph Lab](/data-visualization) and a complete set of algorithms within a
[MAGE](/advanced-algorithms) library running.

<Callout type="info">
Memgraph Platform is no longer a single-container application. Before (Memgraph
< 2.14), Memgraph Platform was a separate Docker image released on Docker Hub.
This image is no longer supported, because having database service and client
service in the same container is not a good practice. Still, with Memgraph Lab
being released on Docker Hub, it is possible to run Memgraph MAGE and Lab as two
separate services, and in that way, running Memgraph Platform as a
multi-container application with [Docker
Compose](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose).
</Callout>

## Install Memgraph Platform

If you want to quickly try out **Memgraph Platform** (Memgraph database + MAGE
library + Memgraph Lab) for the first time, do the following:

<Steps>

{<h3>Install Docker</h3>}
Ensure [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) is running in the
background. 

{<h3>Run Memgraph Platform</h3>}
Depending on your operating system, execute the appropriate command
in the console:

<Tabs items={['Linux/macOS', 'Windows']}>
<Tab>
<CodeSnippet code="curl https://install.memgraph.com | sh" page="getting-started" os="linux/macOS"/>
</Tab>
<Tab>
<CodeSnippet code="iwr https://windows.memgraph.com | iex" page="getting-started" os="windows"/>
</Tab>
</Tabs>

The above command runs a script that downloads a [Docker Compose
file](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph-platform/blob/main/docker-compose.yml)
to your system, builds and starts `memgraph-mage` and `memgraph-lab` Docker
services in two separate containers. The Docker Compose file is downloaded into
a folder called `memgraph-platform` usually located inside the user folder, e.g.
`/Users/katelatte/memgraph-platform`. You'll see the message during the download
process, similar to:
 
 ```
 -e Downloading docker compose file to: /Users/katelatte/memgraph-platform/docker-compose.yml
 ```

To manage the containers with Docker Compose, position yourself into the
`memgraph-platform` folder. Most commonly used commands are `docker compose
start`, `stop`, `down` and `restart`. The running containers can be managed with
Docker as well. To learn how to do that, follow the [First steps with Docker
guide](/getting-started/first-steps-with-docker).
</Steps>

The above installation process is a quick start, but make sure you explore
[other installation options](/getting-started/install-memgraph) and choose the
preferred way of running Memgraph in your environment.
 
## Connect to the database
 
You can connect to the Memgraph instance using the command-line interface
mgconsole by running the following command in a new terminal:

```terminal
docker run -it memgraph/mgconsole:latest [--host HOST_IP] [--port PORT]
```

The arguments `--host` and `--port` are only required if you're running Memgraph on a
remote server or different port. Otherwise, they can be omitted.

Alternatively, you can connect to Memgraph using the [Memgraph Lab web
application](/data-visualization#quick-start) available on `localhost:3000` or
as a [Desktop app](https://memgraph.com/download#individual). 

![](/pages/getting-started/lab.png)


## Import and query data

As a new user, you'll want to populate your fresh Memgraph installation with
data. The method you choose will largely depend on the format of your data.
Memgraph supports imports from various formats, such as CSV, JSON and using
queries listed in a CYPHERL file. For detailed instructions on migrating your
data, refer to the [data migration documentation](/data-migration).

If you're just getting started and want a quick setup, Memgraph offers a range
of pre-made datasets ideal for testing and learning. We have prepared more than
20 datasets you can use for testing and learning. If you wish to use a demo
dataset, go to **Datasets** section, chose a dataset and **Load dataset**.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-datasets.png)

Now that the data is imported it is time to run your first Cypher query. Go to
the  **Query Execution** section in the sidebar, and then copy-and-paste the
following code into the **Cypher editor**.

```cypher

MATCH (n)-[r]-(m)
RETURN n, r, m;

```

Click **Run query** to run the above query that will return all the nodes and
relationships in the database and see the result in the **Graph results** tab.

This an example using one of the preloaded datasets:

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-first-cypher-query.png)

If you're transitioning from Neo4j to Memgraph, adapting your existing Cypher
queries is essential. While both platforms use the Cypher query language, there
might be platform-specific features that require adjustments. To assist you, we
provide a [comprehensive documentation](/querying) to help you adapt and
optimize your queries for Memgraph.

To start using Memgraph in your application, use one of the following [client
libraries](/client-libraries) and follow their getting started guide.

## Run advanced algorithms

Memgraph offers a range of procedures tailored to address specific graph
problems. Built-in deep path traversal algorithms such as BFS, DFS, Weighted
shortest path, and All shortest paths can be executed using their specific
clauses. 

Memgraph comes with expanded set of algorithms called [Memgraph Advanced Graph
Extensions (MAGE)](/advanced-algorithms) library. MAGE is an open-source
repository housing graph algorithms, both by the Memgraph team and the
community. These are presented as query modules. 

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/query-modules.png)

One of the advanced algorithms at your disposal is the PageRank algorithm. You
can run it with the folowing code:

```cypher

CALL pagerank.get()
YIELD node, rank;

```

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/pagerank-results.png)



## Join the Memgraph community

If you have questions regarding Memgraph or want to provide feedback, [join our
Discord](https://www.discord.gg/memgraph) community.

If you prefer a call, schedule a 30 min session with one of our engineers to
discuss how Memgraph fits with your architecture. Our engineers are highly
experienced in helping companies of all sizes to integrate and get the most out
of Memgraph in their projects. Talk to us about data modeling, optimizing
queries, defining infrastructure requirements or migrating from your existing
graph database. No nonsense or sales pitch, just tech.

![](/pages/getting-started/memgraph-office-hours.svg)

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Book a call"
    href="https://memgraph.com/office-hours"
  />
</Cards>
