pages/help-center.md, before:

---
title: Help Center
description: Visit our Help Center to find answers to common questions and troubleshoot issues effectively. Access a wealth of resources to enhance your journey at Memgraph. 
---

# Help Center

Are you stuck? Don't worry, here at Memgraph we are all eager to help - we'll
not leave you stranded!

❓ Try to find an answer in our [**FAQ**](/help-center/faq) page - maybe we already provided an
answer to your inquiry.

🙋 Post a question on
[**StackOverflow**](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/memgraphdb) with
the tag **memgraphdb**. 

You can also ask your question on our
[**Discord server**](https://discord.gg/memgraph). There is always someone from Memgraph
or graph community there to help!

🎫 Open [**a GitHub issue**](https://github.com/memgraph) in the corresponding repository to:

  - report a bug or a technical issue
  - submit a feature request or an improvement suggestion
  - request information not present in the documentation
  - ask any other kind of technical question.

📧 Email us at [**tech@memgraph.com**](mailto:tech@memgraph.com).

## Community

If you want to be a part of Memgraph's fast-growing community, join us on our
path by following us, participating in discussions, and asking questions. We are
available at the following platforms:

- [**Discord**](https://discord.gg/memgraph)
- [**Memgraph GitHub**](https://github.com/memgraph)
- [**Twitter**](https://twitter.com/memgraphdb)
- [**YouTube**](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZ3HOJvHGxtQ_JHxOselBYg)

Commit message:

Remove tech email (#359)
* Remove tech email

* Add OH link

pages/help-center.md, after:

---
title: Help Center
description: Visit our Help Center to find answers to common questions and troubleshoot issues effectively. Access a wealth of resources to enhance your journey at Memgraph. 
---

# Help Center

Are you stuck? Don't worry, here at Memgraph we are all eager to help - we'll
not leave you stranded!

❓ Try to find an answer in our [**FAQ**](/help-center/faq) page - maybe we already provided an
answer to your inquiry.

🙋 Post a question on
[**StackOverflow**](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/memgraphdb) with
the tag **memgraphdb**. 

You can also ask your question on our
[**Discord server**](https://discord.gg/memgraph). There is always someone from Memgraph
or graph community there to help!

🎫 Open [**a GitHub issue**](https://github.com/memgraph) in the corresponding repository to:

  - report a bug or a technical issue
  - submit a feature request or an improvement suggestion
  - request information not present in the documentation
  - ask any other kind of technical question.

📱[**Book a call**](https://memgraph.com/office-hours) and learn more about Memgraph capabilities to integrate it into your current stack as fast as possible.

## Community

If you want to be a part of Memgraph's fast-growing community, join us on our
path by following us, participating in discussions, and asking questions. We are
available at the following platforms:

- [**Discord**](https://discord.gg/memgraph)
- [**Memgraph GitHub**](https://github.com/memgraph)
- [**Twitter**](https://twitter.com/memgraphdb)
- [**YouTube**](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZ3HOJvHGxtQ_JHxOselBYg)
