pages/help-center/errors/auth.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Auth module errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' using the auth module because the user
   already exists as a role. For more details, visit: memgr.ph/auth.](#error-1)
2. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' using the auth module because the user
   doesn't exist. For more details, visit: memgr.ph/auth.](#error-2)
3. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' using the auth module because the user's
   role '{}' already exists as a user. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/auth.](#error-3)
4. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' using the auth module because the user's
   role '{}' doesn't exist. For more details, visit: memgr.ph/auth.](#error-4)
5. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' because the user doesn't exist. For more
   details, visit: memgr.ph/auth.](#error-2)
6. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}'. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/auth.](#error-5)

## The user already exists as a role [#error-1]

A user and a role can't share the same name. Please change the name of the user
or the role.

## The user doesn't exist [#error-2]

By using the `--auth-module-create-user` flag, you can specify if a missing user
should be created. Otherwise, the user can't be created and this error will be
thrown.

## The role already exists as a user [#error-3]

A user and a role can't share the same name. Please change the name of the user
or the role.

## The role doesn't exist [#error-4]

By using the `--auth-module-create-user` flag, you can specify if a missing role
should be created. Otherwise, the role can't be created and this error will be
thrown.

## Couldn't authenticate user [#error-5]

The specified password was most probably wrong. Please check the credentials
again.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/help-center/errors/auth.mdx, after:

---
title: Auth module errors
description: Enhance your graph journey with advanced authentication features, and learn how to implement strong authentication mechanisms for enhanced security. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Auth module errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' using the auth module because the user
   already exists as a role. For more details, visit: memgr.ph/auth.](#error-1)
2. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' using the auth module because the user
   doesn't exist. For more details, visit: memgr.ph/auth.](#error-2)
3. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' using the auth module because the user's
   role '{}' already exists as a user. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/auth.](#error-3)
4. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' using the auth module because the user's
   role '{}' doesn't exist. For more details, visit: memgr.ph/auth.](#error-4)
5. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}' because the user doesn't exist. For more
   details, visit: memgr.ph/auth.](#error-2)
6. [Couldn't authenticate user '{}'. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/auth.](#error-5)

## The user already exists as a role [#error-1]

A user and a role can't share the same name. Please change the name of the user
or the role.

## The user doesn't exist [#error-2]

By using the `--auth-module-create-user` flag, you can specify if a missing user
should be created. Otherwise, the user can't be created and this error will be
thrown.

## The role already exists as a user [#error-3]

A user and a role can't share the same name. Please change the name of the user
or the role.

## The role doesn't exist [#error-4]

By using the `--auth-module-create-user` flag, you can specify if a missing role
should be created. Otherwise, the role can't be created and this error will be
thrown.

## Couldn't authenticate user [#error-5]

The specified password was most probably wrong. Please check the credentials
again.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>
