pages/help-center/errors/memory.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Memory (RAM) errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Warnings

1. [Running out of available RAM, only {} MB left. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/ram.](#error-1)

## Running out of available RAM [#error-1]

This is a warning that can be disabled in the Memgraph configuration. The
Memgraph configuration is available in `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf` and you can
disable the warning with the `--memory-warning-threshold` flag. The default
value is `true`. If the configuration file is altered, Memgraph needs to be
restarted. To learn about all the configuration options, check out the
[reference guide](/configuration/configuration-settings).

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/help-center/errors/memory.mdx, after:

---
title: Memory (RAM) errors
description: Understand and manage memory effectively in Memgraph. Running out of available RAM? Learn how to disable the warning by going to our documentation page. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Memory (RAM) errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Warnings

1. [Running out of available RAM, only {} MB left. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/ram.](#error-1)

## Running out of available RAM [#error-1]

This is a warning that can be disabled in the Memgraph configuration. The
Memgraph configuration is available in `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf` and you can
disable the warning with the `--memory-warning-threshold` flag. The default
value is `true`. If the configuration file is altered, Memgraph needs to be
restarted. To learn about all the configuration options, check out the
[reference guide](/configuration/configuration-settings).

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>
