pages/help-center/errors/modules.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Module errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [Unable to load module {}; {}. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/modules.](#error-1)
2. [Failed to close module {}; {}. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/modules.](#error-1)
3. [Unable to overwrite an already loaded module {}. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/modules.](#error-2)
4. [Module directory {} doesn't exist. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/modules.](#error-3)

## Warnings

1. [Unknown query module file {}. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/modules.](#warning-1)

## Errors when loading or closing modules [#error-1]

When Memgraph is loading/closing modules, an error can occur if:
1. The file could not be found: check if the file has been deleted.
2. The file is not readable: make the file readable for the user `memgraph`.
3. The file had the wrong format: check if the file has the expected format.
4. The file caused errors during loading.

## Unable to overwrite an already loaded module [#error-2]

Module names need to be distinct. Try to rename your module and load it again
with `CALL mg.load_all();`.

## Module directory {} doesn't exist [#error-3]

Make sure that Memgraph is searching for the modules in the right directory. The
Memgraph configuration is available in `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf` and you can
specify the directory with the `--query-modules-directory` flag. The default
directory is `/usr/lib/memgraph/query-modules`. If the configuration file is
altered, Memgraph needs to be restarted.  To learn about all the configuration
options, check out the [reference guide](/configuration/configuration-settings).

## Unknown query module file [#warning-1]

Query modules can be implemented using the Python or C API provided by Memgraph.
Modules written in languages other than Python need to be compiled to a shared
library so that they can be loaded when Memgraph starts. This means that you can
write the procedures in any programming language which can work with C and can
be compiled to the ELF shared library format.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/help-center/errors/modules.mdx, after:

---
title: Module errors
description: Facing with module errors, what's next? Get to know all the warnings and errors you may encounter at Memgraph by visiting our comprehensive documentation page. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Module errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [Unable to load module {}; {}. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/modules.](#error-1)
2. [Failed to close module {}; {}. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/modules.](#error-1)
3. [Unable to overwrite an already loaded module {}. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/modules.](#error-2)
4. [Module directory {} doesn't exist. For more details, visit
   memgr.ph/modules.](#error-3)

## Warnings

1. [Unknown query module file {}. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/modules.](#warning-1)

## Errors when loading or closing modules [#error-1]

When Memgraph is loading/closing modules, an error can occur if:
1. The file could not be found: check if the file has been deleted.
2. The file is not readable: make the file readable for the user `memgraph`.
3. The file had the wrong format: check if the file has the expected format.
4. The file caused errors during loading.

## Unable to overwrite an already loaded module [#error-2]

Module names need to be distinct. Try to rename your module and load it again
with `CALL mg.load_all();`.

## Module directory {} doesn't exist [#error-3]

Make sure that Memgraph is searching for the modules in the right directory. The
Memgraph configuration is available in `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf` and you can
specify the directory with the `--query-modules-directory` flag. The default
directory is `/usr/lib/memgraph/query-modules`. If the configuration file is
altered, Memgraph needs to be restarted.  To learn about all the configuration
options, check out the [reference guide](/configuration/configuration-settings).

## Unknown query module file [#warning-1]

Query modules can be implemented using the Python or C API provided by Memgraph.
Modules written in languages other than Python need to be compiled to a shared
library so that they can be loaded when Memgraph starts. This means that you can
write the procedures in any programming language which can work with C and can
be compiled to the ELF shared library format.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>
