pages/help-center/errors/python-modules.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Python module errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [Unable to load support for embedded Python: {}. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/python.](#error-1)
2. [Unable to load support for embedded Python: missing directory {}. For more
   details, visit: memgr.ph/python.](#error-1)

## How to install Python packages globally? [#error-1]

The Python packages need to be installed globally for Memgraph to access them.
To install a Python module globally, you will need to run it with the following
command:

```console
sudo pip3 install <PACKAGE_NAME>
```

If this approach doesn't work, try to install a pre-compiled package using
`apt-get` if available.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/help-center/errors/python-modules.mdx, after:

---
title: Python module errors
description: Get your hands on Python module error types as well as learn how to install Python packages globally for Memgraph's access by visiting our documentation page. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Python module errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [Unable to load support for embedded Python: {}. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/python.](#error-1)
2. [Unable to load support for embedded Python: missing directory {}. For more
   details, visit: memgr.ph/python.](#error-1)

## How to install Python packages globally? [#error-1]

The Python packages need to be installed globally for Memgraph to access them.
To install a Python module globally, you will need to run it with the following
command:

```console
sudo pip3 install <PACKAGE_NAME>
```

If this approach doesn't work, try to install a pre-compiled package using
`apt-get` if available.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>
