pages/help-center/errors/replication.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Replication errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [Failed to connect to replica {} at the endpoint {}. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/replication.](#error-1)
2. [Couldn't replicate data to {}. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/replication.](#error-1)

## Warning

1. [Snapshots are disabled for replicas. For more details, visit: memgr.ph/replication.](#warning-1)

## Troubleshooting replication errors [#error-1]

1. Make sure that the Memgraph instances serving as replicas are up and running.
2. Check the firewall on your machine because it could be blocking the traffic
   requested by Memgraph.
3. Verify that there are no network problems.

## Snapshots are disabled for replicas [#warning-1]

Because of consistency constraints, snapshots are disabled on replicas. If you
need a snapshot of the database, then create one on the main instance.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/help-center/errors/replication.mdx, after:

---
title: Replication errors
description: Learn about replication errors as well as troubleshooting best practices for replication errors in our all-in-one documentation page at Memgraph. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Replication errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [Failed to connect to replica {} at the endpoint {}. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/replication.](#error-1)
2. [Couldn't replicate data to {}. For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/replication.](#error-1)

## Warning

1. [Snapshots are disabled for replicas. For more details, visit: memgr.ph/replication.](#warning-1)

## Troubleshooting replication errors [#error-1]

1. Make sure that the Memgraph instances serving as replicas are up and running.
2. Check the firewall on your machine because it could be blocking the traffic
   requested by Memgraph.
3. Verify that there are no network problems.

## Snapshots are disabled for replicas [#warning-1]

Because of consistency constraints, snapshots are disabled on replicas. If you
need a snapshot of the database, then create one on the main instance.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>
