pages/help-center/errors/ssl.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# SSL errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [An unknown error occurred while processing an SSL message. Please make sure
   that you have SSL properly configured on the server and the client. For more
   details, visit: memgr.ph/ssl.](#error-1)

## Warnings

1. [Using non-secure Bolt connection (without SSL). For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/ssl.](#error-1)

## Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) [#error-1]

Secure connections are supported and disabled by default. The server initially
ships with a self-signed testing certificate located at `/etc/memgraph/ssl/`.
You can use it by [changing the configuration](/configuration/configuration-settings) and passing its path within the
following parameters:

```
--bolt-cert-file=/etc/memgraph/ssl/cert.pem
--bolt-key-file=/etc/memgraph/ssl/key.pem
```

If you are using your own certificate be sure to enter the correct path to the
certificate.

To disable SSL support and use insecure connections to the database erase or
make comments out of both parameters (`--bolt-cert-file` and `--bolt-key-file`)
by adding a hashtag in front of them.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/help-center/errors/ssl.mdx, after:

---
title: SSL errors
description: Explore SSL errors and warnings all in one place. This is a dedicated page in our documentation of SSL error types you may encounter while using Memgraph's solution. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# SSL errors

<Callout type="info">
If you are having trouble dealing with an error, please let us know on the <a href="https://www.discord.gg/memgraph"
target="_blank">Discord</a>.
</Callout>

## Errors

1. [An unknown error occurred while processing an SSL message. Please make sure
   that you have SSL properly configured on the server and the client. For more
   details, visit: memgr.ph/ssl.](#error-1)

## Warnings

1. [Using non-secure Bolt connection (without SSL). For more details, visit:
   memgr.ph/ssl.](#error-1)

## Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) [#error-1]

Secure connections are supported and disabled by default. The server initially
ships with a self-signed testing certificate located at `/etc/memgraph/ssl/`.
You can use it by [changing the configuration](/configuration/configuration-settings) and passing its path within the
following parameters:

```
--bolt-cert-file=/etc/memgraph/ssl/cert.pem
--bolt-key-file=/etc/memgraph/ssl/key.pem
```

If you are using your own certificate be sure to enter the correct path to the
certificate.

To disable SSL support and use insecure connections to the database erase or
make comments out of both parameters (`--bolt-cert-file` and `--bolt-key-file`)
by adding a hashtag in front of them.

<Callout type="info">
If you weren't able to find the error, please submit it through a <a href="https://support.memgraph.com"
target="_blank">Support Ticket</a> so we can look into it and get back to you.
</Callout>
