pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations.mdx, before:

import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# Integrations

Memgraph offers several integrations with popular AI frameworks to help you
customize and build your own GenAI application from scratch. Here is a list of
Memgraph's officially supported integrations:
- [Model Context Protocol](#model-context-protocol-mcp)
- [LlamaIndex](#llamaindex)
- [LangChain](#langchain)

## Model Context Protocol (MCP)

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Memgraph MCP Server"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mcp-memgraph"
  />
</Cards>

Memgraph offers Memgraph the [Memgraph MCP
Server](https://github.com/memgraph/mcp-memgraph) - a lightweight server
implementation of the Model Context Protocol (MCP) designed to connect Memgraph
with LLMs.

![mcp-server](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/mcp-server.png)

<h3 className="custom-header">Quick start</h3>

<h4 className="custom-header">1. Run Memgraph MCP Server</h4>

1. Install [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) and create `venv` with `uv venv`. Activate virtual environment with `.venv\Scripts\activate`. 
2. Install dependencies: `uv add "mcp[cli]" httpx`
3. Run Memgraph MCP server: `uv run server.py`.


<h4 className="custom-header"> 2. Run MCP Client</h4>
1. Install [Claude for Desktop](https://claude.ai/download).
2. Add the Memgraph server to Claude config: 

**MacOS/Linux**
```
code ~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
```

**Windows**

```
code $env:AppData\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json
```

Example config:
```
{
    "mcpServers": {
      "mpc-memgraph": {
        "command": "/Users/katelatte/.local/bin/uv",
        "args": [
            "--directory",
            "/Users/katelatte/projects/mcp-memgraph",
            "run",
            "server.py"
        ]
     }
   }
}
```
<Callout type="info">
You may need to put the full path to the uv executable in the command field. You can get this by running `which uv` on MacOS/Linux or `where uv` on Windows. Make sure you pass in the absolute path to your server.
</Callout>

<h4 className="custom-header">3. Chat with the database</h4>
1. Run Memgraph MAGE:
   ```bash
   docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph-mage --schema-info-enabled=True
   ```

   The `--schema-info-enabled` configuration setting is set to `True` to allow LLM to run `SHOW SCHEMA INFO` query.
2. Open Claude Desktop and see the Memgraph tools and resources listed. Try it out! (You can load dummy data from Memgraph Lab [Datasets](/memgraph-lab/getting-started/data-migration#datasets))


<h3 className="custom-header">Resources</h3>
- [Memgraph MCP Server Quick start](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Tjw5QWj_qY): A video showcasing how to run Memgraph MCP Server. 
- [Introducing the Memgraph MCP Server](https://memgraph.com/blog/introducing-memgraph-mcp-server): A blog post on how to run Memgraph MCP Server and what are the future plans. 

## LlamaIndex

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="LlamaIndex integration"
    href="https://github.com/run-llama/llama_index/tree/main/llama-index-integrations/graph_stores/llama-index-graph-stores-memgraph"
  />
</Cards>

LlamaIndex is a simple, flexible data framework for connecting custom data
sources to large language models. Currently, [Memgraph's
integration](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/stable/api_reference/storage/graph_stores/memgraph/)
supports creating a knowledge graph from unstructured data and querying with
natural language. You can follow the example on [LlamaIndex
docs](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/stable/examples/property_graph/property_graph_memgraph/)
or go through quick start below.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Installation</h4>}

To install LlamaIndex and Memgraph graph store, run:

```shell
pip install llama-index llama-index-graph-stores-memgraph
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Environment setup</h4>}

Before you get started, make sure you have [Memgraph](/getting-started) running
in the background.

To use Memgraph as the underlying graph store for LlamaIndex, define your graph
store by providing the credentials used for your database:

```python
from llama_index.graph_stores.memgraph import MemgraphPropertyGraphStore

username = ""  # Enter your Memgraph username (default "")
password = ""  # Enter your Memgraph password (default "")
url = ""  # Specify the connection URL, e.g., 'bolt://localhost:7687'

graph_store = MemgraphPropertyGraphStore(
    username=username,
    password=password,
    url=url,
)
```

Additionally, a working OpenAI key is required:

```python
import os
os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"] = "<YOUR_API_KEY>"  # Replace with your OpenAI API key
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Dataset</h4>}

For the dataset, we'll use a text about Charles Darwin stored in the
`/data/charles_darwin/charles.txt` file:

```
Charles Robert Darwin was an English naturalist, geologist, and biologist,
widely known for his contributions to evolutionary biology. His proposition that
all species of life have descended from a common ancestor is now generally
accepted and considered a fundamental scientific concept. In a joint publication
with Alfred Russel Wallace, he introduced his scientific theory that this
branching pattern of evolution resulted from a process he called natural
selection, in which the struggle for existence has a similar effect to the
artificial selection involved in selective breeding. Darwin has been described
as one of the most influential figures in human history and was honoured by
burial in Westminster Abbey.
```

```python
from llama_index.core import SimpleDirectoryReader

documents = SimpleDirectoryReader("./data/charles_darwin/").load_data()
```

The data is now loaded in the documents variable which we'll pass as an argument 
in the next step of index creation and graph construction.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Graph construction</h4>}

LlamaIndex provides multiple [graph
constructors](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/latest/module_guides/indexing/lpg_index_guide/#construction).
In this example, we'll use the
[SchemaLLMPathExtractor](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/latest/module_guides/indexing/lpg_index_guide/#schemallmpathextractor),
which allows to both predefine the schema or use the one LLM provides without
explicitly defining entities.

```python
from llama_index.core import PropertyGraphIndex
from llama_index.embeddings.openai import OpenAIEmbedding
from llama_index.llms.openai import OpenAI
from llama_index.core.indices.property_graph import SchemaLLMPathExtractor

index = PropertyGraphIndex.from_documents(
    documents,
    embed_model=OpenAIEmbedding(model_name="text-embedding-ada-002"),
    kg_extractors=[
        SchemaLLMPathExtractor(
            llm=OpenAI(model="gpt-4", temperature=0.0),
        )
    ],
    property_graph_store=graph_store,
    show_progress=True,
)
```

In the below image, you can see how the text was transformed into a knowledge
graph and stored into Memgraph.

![llama-index](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/llamaindex-kg.png)

{<h4 className="custom-header">Querying</h4>}

Labeled property graphs can be queried in several ways to retrieve nodes and
paths and in LlamaIndex, several node retrieval methods at once can be combined.

If no sub-retrievers are provided, the defaults are
[LLMSynonymRetriever](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/latest/module_guides/indexing/lpg_index_guide/#default-llmsynonymretriever)
and
[VectorContexRetriever](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/latest/module_guides/indexing/lpg_index_guide/#default-if-supported-vectorcontextretriever),
if supported.

From the latest update, LlamaIndex utilizes Memgraph's **[vector search](/querying/vector-search)** feature in
the background to enhance retrieval. This integration enables faster and more
accurate querying by leveraging vector similarity searches for embeddings stored
in the graph, leading to precise and context-aware answers.

```python
query_engine = index.as_query_engine(include_text=True)

response = query_engine.query("Who did Charles Robert Darwin collaborate with?")
print(str(response))
```

In the image below, you can see what's happening under the hood to get the answer. 

![llama-retriever](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/llama-retriever.png)

{<h3 className="custom-header">Demos</h3>} 

If you'd like to take it one step further, explore how Memgraph and LlamaIndex
work together in real-world applications with these interactive demos:

- [**Single-agent GraphRAG
  system**](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-demos/blob/main/integrations/llamaindex/single-agent-rag-system/single_agent_rag_system.ipynb):
  Learn how to build an agent-powered graph retrieval-augmented generation (RAG)
  system using Memgraph and LlamaIndex.
- [**Multi-agent GraphRAG
  System**](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-demos/blob/main/integrations/llamaindex/multi-agent-rag-system/multi_agent_rag_system.ipynb):
  Dive into a more advanced setup with multiple agents collaborating in a
  GraphRAG system.

## LangChain

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="LangChain integration"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/langchain-memgraph"
  />
</Cards>

[LangChain](https://www.langchain.com/) is a framework for developing applications powered by large language
models (LLMs). 

Memgraph has an [integration with
LangChain](https://github.com/memgraph/langchain-memgraph) which supports
**Memgraph toolkit** for building agentic applications, **knowledge graph
construction** from unstructured data and **MemgraphQAChain** for querying via
natural language.

<Callout type="info">
Recently, we migrated the Memgraph LangChain integration to the
[repository](https://github.com/memgraph/langchain-memgraph) under Memgraph
organization for easier management. 
</Callout>

### Memgraph toolkit   

The [LangGraph](https://www.langchain.com/langgraph) framework enables users to
build agentic applications. Memgraph now offers a toolkit for building agents
that can autonomously interact with the Memgraph database. 

Currently, the Memgraph toolkit supports the following tools:

- [QueryMemgraphTool](https://github.com/memgraph/langchain-memgraph/blob/main/langchain_memgraph/tools.py#L34-L82): Tool for executing Cypher queries on Memgraph.

<Callout type="info">
We just started building Memgraph toolkit. In case you're interested into having
more tools, please open an
[issue](https://github.com/memgraph/langchain-memgraph/issues) on our repository
or open a [pull request](https://github.com/memgraph/langchain-memgraph/pulls) and
contribute. 
</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header">Installation</h4>}

Before starting to write code, make sure you have installed the required
packages in your environment:

```shell
pip install langchain langchain-openai langchain-memgraph langgraph
```

Don't forget to install `langgraph`, as it is a prerequisite to use Memgraph
toolkit.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Enviroment setup </h4>}

Make sure you have [Memgraph](/getting-started) running
in the background.

After that, you can instantiate `Memgraph` in your Python code. This object holds the
connection to the running Memgraph instance. 

```python
import os
from getpass import getpass

import pytest
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from langchain.chat_models import init_chat_model
from langgraph.prebuilt import create_react_agent

from langchain_memgraph import MemgraphToolkit
from langchain_memgraph.graphs.memgraph import Memgraph


"""Setup Memgraph connection fixture."""
url = os.getenv("MEMGRAPH_URI", "bolt://localhost:7687")
username = os.getenv("MEMGRAPH_USERNAME", "")
password = os.getenv("MEMGRAPH_PASSWORD", "")

graph = Memgraph(
    url=url, username=username, password=password, refresh_schema=False
)

"""Set up Memgraph agent with React pattern."""
if not os.environ.get("OPENAI_API_KEY"):
    os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"] = getpass("Enter API key for OpenAI: ")

llm = init_chat_model("gpt-4o-mini", model_provider="openai")

db = Memgraph(url=url, username=username, password=password)
toolkit = MemgraphToolkit(db=db, llm=llm)

```

The `refresh_schema` is initially set to `False` because there is still no data
in the database, and we want to avoid unnecessary database calls. The code above
also initializes the LLM chat model from OpenAI and gets the toolkit for Memgraph.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Agent setup: </h4>}

After setting up Memgraph and the toolkit, you can create an agent that will use the toolkit to 
solve particular problem:

```python
agent_executor = create_react_agent(
    llm,
    toolkit.get_tools(),
    prompt="You will get a cypher query, try to execute it on the Memgraph database.",
)
```

This is a simple example of an agent using a tool which executes Cypher query.


{<h4 className="custom-header">Running agent</h4>}

Now, we can create a node in the database and run the agent:

```python

query = """
    CREATE (c:Character {name: 'Jon Snow', house: 'Stark', title: 'King in the North'})
"""
memgraph_connection.query(query)
memgraph_connection.refresh_schema()

example_query = "MATCH (n) WHERE n.name = 'Jon Snow' RETURN n"
events = memgraph_agent.stream(
    {"messages": [("user", example_query)]},
    stream_mode="values",
)

last_event = None
for event in events:
    last_event = event
    event["messages"][-1].pretty_print()

print (last_event)

```
The agent will autonomously pick a tool and use the toolkit to solve the requested problem. 

### Querying unstructured data

You can follow the example on [LangChain
docs](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/graphs/memgraph/) or go
through quick start below.

<Callout type="info">
Recently, we migrated the Memgraph LangChain integration to the
[repository](https://github.com/memgraph/langchain-memgraph) under Memgraph
organization for easier management. 
</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header">Installation</h4>}

To install all the required packages, run:

```shell
pip install langchain langchain-openai langchain-memgraph langchain-experimental
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Environment setup</h4>}

Before you get started, make sure you have [Memgraph](/getting-started) running
in the background.

Then, instantiate `Memgraph` in your Python code. This object holds the
connection to the running Memgraph instance. Make sure to set up all the
environment variables properly.

```python
import os
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI
from langchain_experimental.graph_transformers import LLMGraphTransformer
from langchain_memgraph.graphs.graph_document import Document
from langchain_memgraph.chains.graph_qa import MemgraphQAChain
from langchain_memgraph.graphs.memgraph import Memgraph

url = os.environ.get("MEMGRAPH_URI", "bolt://localhost:7687")
username = os.environ.get("MEMGRAPH_USERNAME", "")
password = os.environ.get("MEMGRAPH_PASSWORD", "")

graph = MemgraphGraph(
    url=url, username=username, password=password, refresh_schema=False
)
```

The `refresh_schema` is initially set to `False` because there is still no data in
the database and we want to avoid unnecessary database calls.

To interact with the LLM, you must configure it. Here is how you can set API key as an
environment variable for OpenAI:

```python
os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"] = "your-key-here"
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Graph construction</h4>}

For the dataset, we'll use the following text about Charles Darwin:

```python
text = """
    Charles Robert Darwin was an English naturalist, geologist, and biologist,
    widely known for his contributions to evolutionary biology. His proposition that
    all species of life have descended from a common ancestor is now generally
    accepted and considered a fundamental scientific concept. In a joint
    publication with Alfred Russel Wallace, he introduced his scientific theory that
    this branching pattern of evolution resulted from a process he called natural
    selection, in which the struggle for existence has a similar effect to the
    artificial selection involved in selective breeding. Darwin has been
    described as one of the most influential figures in human history and was
    honoured by burial in Westminster Abbey.
"""
```

To construct the graph, first initialize `LLMGraphTransformer` from the desired
LLM and convert the document to the graph structure.

```python
llm = ChatOpenAI(temperature=0, model_name="gpt-4-turbo")
llm_transformer = LLMGraphTransformer(llm=llm)
documents = [Document(page_content=text)]
graph_documents = llm_transformer.convert_to_graph_documents(documents)
```

The graph structure in the `GraphDocument` format can be forwarded to the
`add_graph_documents()` procedure to import in into Memgraph:

```python
# Make sure the database is empty
graph.query("STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL")
graph.query("DROP GRAPH")
graph.query("STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL")

# Create KG
graph.add_graph_documents(graph_documents)
```

The `add_graph_documents()` procedure transforms the list of `graph_documents`
into appropriate Cypher queries and executes them in Memgraph.

In the below image, you can see how the text was transformed into a knowledge
graph and stored into Memgraph.

![langchain-kg](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/langchain-kg-creation.png)

For additional options, check the [full
guide](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/graphs/memgraph/#additional-options)
on the LangChain docs. 

{<h4 className="custom-header">Querying</h4>}

In the end, you can query the knowledge graph:

```python
chain = MemgraphQAChain.from_llm(
    ChatOpenAI(temperature=0),
    graph=graph,
    model_name="gpt-4-turbo",
    allow_dangerous_requests=True,
)
print(chain.invoke("Who Charles Robert Darwin collaborated with?")["result"])
```
Here is the result:
```
MATCH (:Person {id: "Charles Robert Darwin"})-[:COLLABORATION]->(collaborator)
RETURN collaborator;
Alfred Russel Wallace
```

In the image below, you can see what's happening under the hood to get the
answer. 

![langchain-query](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/langchain-retrieval.png)

<CommunityLinks/>

Commit message:

Langchain toolbox update (#1289)
Update the instructions of Langchain to use new toolbox repo.

pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations.mdx, after:

import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'
import { Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import GitHub from '/components/icons/GitHub'

# Integrations

Memgraph offers several integrations with popular AI frameworks to help you
customize and build your own GenAI application from scratch. Here is a list of
Memgraph's officially supported integrations:
- [Model Context Protocol](#model-context-protocol-mcp)
- [LlamaIndex](#llamaindex)
- [LangChain](#langchain)
 

## Model Context Protocol (MCP)

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="Memgraph MCP Server"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/mcp-memgraph"
  />
</Cards>

Memgraph offers Memgraph the [Memgraph MCP
Server](https://github.com/memgraph/mcp-memgraph) - a lightweight server
implementation of the Model Context Protocol (MCP) designed to connect Memgraph
with LLMs.

![mcp-server](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/mcp-server.png)

<h3 className="custom-header">Quick start</h3>

<h4 className="custom-header">1. Run Memgraph MCP Server</h4>

1. Install [`uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/) and create `venv` with `uv venv`. Activate virtual environment with `.venv\Scripts\activate`. 
2. Install dependencies: `uv add "mcp[cli]" httpx`
3. Run Memgraph MCP server: `uv run server.py`.


<h4 className="custom-header"> 2. Run MCP Client</h4>
1. Install [Claude for Desktop](https://claude.ai/download).
2. Add the Memgraph server to Claude config: 

**MacOS/Linux**
```
code ~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
```

**Windows**

```
code $env:AppData\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json
```

Example config:
```
{
    "mcpServers": {
      "mpc-memgraph": {
        "command": "/Users/katelatte/.local/bin/uv",
        "args": [
            "--directory",
            "/Users/katelatte/projects/mcp-memgraph",
            "run",
            "server.py"
        ]
     }
   }
}
```
<Callout type="info">
You may need to put the full path to the uv executable in the command field. You can get this by running `which uv` on MacOS/Linux or `where uv` on Windows. Make sure you pass in the absolute path to your server.
</Callout>

<h4 className="custom-header">3. Chat with the database</h4>
1. Run Memgraph MAGE:
   ```bash
   docker run -p 7687:7687 memgraph/memgraph-mage --schema-info-enabled=True
   ```

   The `--schema-info-enabled` configuration setting is set to `True` to allow LLM to run `SHOW SCHEMA INFO` query.
2. Open Claude Desktop and see the Memgraph tools and resources listed. Try it out! (You can load dummy data from Memgraph Lab [Datasets](/memgraph-lab/getting-started/data-migration#datasets))


<h3 className="custom-header">Resources</h3>
- [Memgraph MCP Server Quick start](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Tjw5QWj_qY): A video showcasing how to run Memgraph MCP Server. 
- [Introducing the Memgraph MCP Server](https://memgraph.com/blog/introducing-memgraph-mcp-server): A blog post on how to run Memgraph MCP Server and what are the future plans. 

## LlamaIndex

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="LlamaIndex integration"
    href="https://github.com/run-llama/llama_index/tree/main/llama-index-integrations/graph_stores/llama-index-graph-stores-memgraph"
  />
</Cards>

LlamaIndex is a simple, flexible data framework for connecting custom data
sources to large language models. Currently, [Memgraph's
integration](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/stable/api_reference/storage/graph_stores/memgraph/)
supports creating a knowledge graph from unstructured data and querying with
natural language. You can follow the example on [LlamaIndex
docs](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/stable/examples/property_graph/property_graph_memgraph/)
or go through quick start below.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Installation</h4>}

To install LlamaIndex and Memgraph graph store, run:

```shell
pip install llama-index llama-index-graph-stores-memgraph
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Environment setup</h4>}

Before you get started, make sure you have [Memgraph](/getting-started) running
in the background.

To use Memgraph as the underlying graph store for LlamaIndex, define your graph
store by providing the credentials used for your database:

```python
from llama_index.graph_stores.memgraph import MemgraphPropertyGraphStore

username = ""  # Enter your Memgraph username (default "")
password = ""  # Enter your Memgraph password (default "")
url = ""  # Specify the connection URL, e.g., 'bolt://localhost:7687'

graph_store = MemgraphPropertyGraphStore(
    username=username,
    password=password,
    url=url,
)
```

Additionally, a working OpenAI key is required:

```python
import os
os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"] = "<YOUR_API_KEY>"  # Replace with your OpenAI API key
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Dataset</h4>}

For the dataset, we'll use a text about Charles Darwin stored in the
`/data/charles_darwin/charles.txt` file:

```
Charles Robert Darwin was an English naturalist, geologist, and biologist,
widely known for his contributions to evolutionary biology. His proposition that
all species of life have descended from a common ancestor is now generally
accepted and considered a fundamental scientific concept. In a joint publication
with Alfred Russel Wallace, he introduced his scientific theory that this
branching pattern of evolution resulted from a process he called natural
selection, in which the struggle for existence has a similar effect to the
artificial selection involved in selective breeding. Darwin has been described
as one of the most influential figures in human history and was honoured by
burial in Westminster Abbey.
```

```python
from llama_index.core import SimpleDirectoryReader

documents = SimpleDirectoryReader("./data/charles_darwin/").load_data()
```

The data is now loaded in the documents variable which we'll pass as an argument 
in the next step of index creation and graph construction.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Graph construction</h4>}

LlamaIndex provides multiple [graph
constructors](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/latest/module_guides/indexing/lpg_index_guide/#construction).
In this example, we'll use the
[SchemaLLMPathExtractor](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/latest/module_guides/indexing/lpg_index_guide/#schemallmpathextractor),
which allows to both predefine the schema or use the one LLM provides without
explicitly defining entities.

```python
from llama_index.core import PropertyGraphIndex
from llama_index.embeddings.openai import OpenAIEmbedding
from llama_index.llms.openai import OpenAI
from llama_index.core.indices.property_graph import SchemaLLMPathExtractor

index = PropertyGraphIndex.from_documents(
    documents,
    embed_model=OpenAIEmbedding(model_name="text-embedding-ada-002"),
    kg_extractors=[
        SchemaLLMPathExtractor(
            llm=OpenAI(model="gpt-4", temperature=0.0),
        )
    ],
    property_graph_store=graph_store,
    show_progress=True,
)
```

In the below image, you can see how the text was transformed into a knowledge
graph and stored into Memgraph.

![llama-index](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/llamaindex-kg.png)

{<h4 className="custom-header">Querying</h4>}

Labeled property graphs can be queried in several ways to retrieve nodes and
paths and in LlamaIndex, several node retrieval methods at once can be combined.

If no sub-retrievers are provided, the defaults are
[LLMSynonymRetriever](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/latest/module_guides/indexing/lpg_index_guide/#default-llmsynonymretriever)
and
[VectorContexRetriever](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/latest/module_guides/indexing/lpg_index_guide/#default-if-supported-vectorcontextretriever),
if supported.

From the latest update, LlamaIndex utilizes Memgraph's **[vector search](/querying/vector-search)** feature in
the background to enhance retrieval. This integration enables faster and more
accurate querying by leveraging vector similarity searches for embeddings stored
in the graph, leading to precise and context-aware answers.

```python
query_engine = index.as_query_engine(include_text=True)

response = query_engine.query("Who did Charles Robert Darwin collaborate with?")
print(str(response))
```

In the image below, you can see what's happening under the hood to get the answer. 

![llama-retriever](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/llama-retriever.png)

{<h3 className="custom-header">Demos</h3>} 

If you'd like to take it one step further, explore how Memgraph and LlamaIndex
work together in real-world applications with these interactive demos:

- [**Single-agent GraphRAG
  system**](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-demos/blob/main/integrations/llamaindex/single-agent-rag-system/single_agent_rag_system.ipynb):
  Learn how to build an agent-powered graph retrieval-augmented generation (RAG)
  system using Memgraph and LlamaIndex.
- [**Multi-agent GraphRAG
  System**](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-demos/blob/main/integrations/llamaindex/multi-agent-rag-system/multi_agent_rag_system.ipynb):
  Dive into a more advanced setup with multiple agents collaborating in a
  GraphRAG system.

## LangChain

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card
    icon={<GitHub />}
    title="LangChain integration"
    href="https://github.com/memgraph/ai-toolkit/tree/main/integrations/langchain-memgraph"
  />
</Cards>

[LangChain](https://www.langchain.com/) is a framework for developing applications powered by large language
models (LLMs). 

Memgraph has an [integration with
LangChain](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-toolkit/tree/main/integrations/langchain-memgraph) which supports
**Memgraph toolkit** for building agentic applications, **knowledge graph
construction** from unstructured data and **MemgraphQAChain** for querying via
natural language.

<Callout type="info">
Recently, we migrated the Memgraph LangChain integration to the
[repository](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-toolkit/tree/main/integrations/langchain-memgraph) under Memgraph
organization for easier management. 
</Callout>

### Memgraph toolkit   

The [LangGraph](https://www.langchain.com/langgraph) framework enables users to
build agentic applications. Memgraph now offers a toolkit for building agents
that can autonomously interact with the Memgraph database. 

Currently, the Memgraph [toolkit](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-toolkit/blob/main/integrations/langchain-memgraph/langchain_memgraph/toolkits.py) supports the following tools:

- **RunQueryTool**: Executes Cypher queries on the Memgraph database.
- **RunShowIndexInfoTool**: Retrieves information about the indexes in the database.
- **RunShowSchemaInfoTool**: Retrieves information about the schema in the database.
- **RunShowConfigTool**: Retrieves information about the configuration of the database.
- **RunShowStorageInfoTool**: Retrieves information about the storage engine of the database.
- **RunShowTriggersTool**: Retrieves information about the triggers in the database.
- **RunShowConstraintInfoTool**: Retrieves information about the constraints in the database.
- **RunBetweennessCentralityTool**: Calculates the betweenness centrality of nodes in the graph.
- **RunPageRankMemgraphTool**: Calculates the PageRank of nodes in the graph.


<Callout type="info">
We just started building Memgraph toolkit. In case you're interested into having
more tools, please open an
[issue](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-toolkit/issues) on our repository
or open a [pull request](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-toolkit/pulls) and
contribute. 
</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header">Installation</h4>}

Before starting to write code, make sure you have installed the required
packages in your environment:

```shell
pip install langchain langchain-openai langchain-memgraph langgraph
```

Don't forget to install `langgraph`, as it is a prerequisite to use Memgraph
toolkit.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Enviroment setup </h4>}

Make sure you have [Memgraph](/getting-started) running
in the background.

After that, you can instantiate `Memgraph` in your Python code. This object holds the
connection to the running Memgraph instance. 

```python
import os
from getpass import getpass

import pytest
from dotenv import load_dotenv
from langchain.chat_models import init_chat_model
from langgraph.prebuilt import create_react_agent

from langchain_memgraph import MemgraphToolkit
from memgraph_toolbox.api.memgraph import Memgraph


"""Setup Memgraph connection fixture."""
url = os.getenv("MEMGRAPH_URI", "bolt://localhost:7687")
username = os.getenv("MEMGRAPH_USERNAME", "")
password = os.getenv("MEMGRAPH_PASSWORD", "")

graph = Memgraph(
    url=url, username=username, password=password, refresh_schema=False
)

"""Set up Memgraph agent with React pattern."""
if not os.environ.get("OPENAI_API_KEY"):
    os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"] = getpass("Enter API key for OpenAI: ")

llm = init_chat_model("gpt-4o-mini", model_provider="openai")

db = Memgraph(url=url, username=username, password=password)
toolkit = MemgraphToolkit(db=db, llm=llm)

```

The `refresh_schema` is initially set to `False` because there is still no data
in the database, and we want to avoid unnecessary database calls. The code above
also initializes the LLM chat model from OpenAI and gets the toolkit for Memgraph.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Agent setup: </h4>}

After setting up Memgraph and the toolkit, you can create an agent that will use the toolkit to 
solve particular problem:

```python
agent_executor = create_react_agent(
    llm,
    toolkit.get_tools(),
    prompt="You will get a cypher query, try to execute it on the Memgraph database.",
)
```

This is a simple example of an agent using a tool which executes Cypher query.


{<h4 className="custom-header">Running agent</h4>}

Now, we can create a node in the database and run the agent:

```python

query = """
    CREATE (c:Character {name: 'Jon Snow', house: 'Stark', title: 'King in the North'})
"""
memgraph_connection.query(query)
memgraph_connection.refresh_schema()

example_query = "MATCH (n) WHERE n.name = 'Jon Snow' RETURN n"
events = memgraph_agent.stream(
    {"messages": [("user", example_query)]},
    stream_mode="values",
)

last_event = None
for event in events:
    last_event = event
    event["messages"][-1].pretty_print()

print (last_event)

```
The agent will autonomously pick a tool and use the toolkit to solve the requested problem. 

### Querying unstructured data

You can follow the example on [LangChain
docs](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/graphs/memgraph/) or go
through quick start below.

<Callout type="info">
Recently, we migrated the Memgraph LangChain integration to the
[repository](https://github.com/memgraph/ai-toolkit/tree/main/integrations/langchain-memgraph) under Memgraph
organization for easier management. 
</Callout>

{<h4 className="custom-header">Installation</h4>}

To install all the required packages, run:

```shell
pip install langchain langchain-openai langchain-memgraph langchain-experimental
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Environment setup</h4>}

Before you get started, make sure you have [Memgraph](/getting-started) running
in the background.

Then, instantiate `Memgraph` in your Python code. This object holds the
connection to the running Memgraph instance. Make sure to set up all the
environment variables properly.

```python
import os
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI
from langchain_experimental.graph_transformers import LLMGraphTransformer
from langchain_memgraph.graphs.graph_document import Document
from langchain_memgraph.chains.graph_qa import MemgraphQAChain
from langchain_memgraph.graphs.memgraph import Memgraph

url = os.environ.get("MEMGRAPH_URI", "bolt://localhost:7687")
username = os.environ.get("MEMGRAPH_USERNAME", "")
password = os.environ.get("MEMGRAPH_PASSWORD", "")

graph = MemgraphGraph(
    url=url, username=username, password=password, refresh_schema=False
)
```

The `refresh_schema` is initially set to `False` because there is still no data in
the database and we want to avoid unnecessary database calls.

To interact with the LLM, you must configure it. Here is how you can set API key as an
environment variable for OpenAI:

```python
os.environ["OPENAI_API_KEY"] = "your-key-here"
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Graph construction</h4>}

For the dataset, we'll use the following text about Charles Darwin:

```python
text = """
    Charles Robert Darwin was an English naturalist, geologist, and biologist,
    widely known for his contributions to evolutionary biology. His proposition that
    all species of life have descended from a common ancestor is now generally
    accepted and considered a fundamental scientific concept. In a joint
    publication with Alfred Russel Wallace, he introduced his scientific theory that
    this branching pattern of evolution resulted from a process he called natural
    selection, in which the struggle for existence has a similar effect to the
    artificial selection involved in selective breeding. Darwin has been
    described as one of the most influential figures in human history and was
    honoured by burial in Westminster Abbey.
"""
```

To construct the graph, first initialize `LLMGraphTransformer` from the desired
LLM and convert the document to the graph structure.

```python
llm = ChatOpenAI(temperature=0, model_name="gpt-4-turbo")
llm_transformer = LLMGraphTransformer(llm=llm)
documents = [Document(page_content=text)]
graph_documents = llm_transformer.convert_to_graph_documents(documents)
```

The graph structure in the `GraphDocument` format can be forwarded to the
`add_graph_documents()` procedure to import in into Memgraph:

```python
# Make sure the database is empty
graph.query("STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL")
graph.query("DROP GRAPH")
graph.query("STORAGE MODE IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL")

# Create KG
graph.add_graph_documents(graph_documents)
```

The `add_graph_documents()` procedure transforms the list of `graph_documents`
into appropriate Cypher queries and executes them in Memgraph.

In the below image, you can see how the text was transformed into a knowledge
graph and stored into Memgraph.

![langchain-kg](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/langchain-kg-creation.png)

For additional options, check the [full
guide](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/graphs/memgraph/#additional-options)
on the LangChain docs. 

{<h4 className="custom-header">Querying</h4>}

In the end, you can query the knowledge graph:

```python
chain = MemgraphQAChain.from_llm(
    ChatOpenAI(temperature=0),
    graph=graph,
    model_name="gpt-4-turbo",
    allow_dangerous_requests=True,
)
print(chain.invoke("Who Charles Robert Darwin collaborated with?")["result"])
```
Here is the result:
```
MATCH (:Person {id: "Charles Robert Darwin"})-[:COLLABORATION]->(collaborator)
RETURN collaborator;
Alfred Russel Wallace
```

In the image below, you can see what's happening under the hood to get the
answer. 

![langchain-query](/pages/ai-ecosystem/integrations/langchain-retrieval.png)

<CommunityLinks/>
