pages/querying/clauses/delete.md, before:

---
title: DELETE clause
description: Learn to effectively use the DELETE clause in Memgraph. Our comprehensive documentation ensures competent data management for graph computing.
---

# DELETE clause

The `DELETE` clause is used to delete nodes and relationships from the database.

1. [Deleting a node](#1-deleting-a-node) <br />
2. [Deleting a node and its relationships](#2-deleting-a-node-and-its-relationships) <br />
3. [Deleting a relationship](#3-deleting-a-relationship) <br />
4. [Deleting a path](#4-deleting-a-path) <br />
5. [Deleting everything](#4-deleting-everything)

## Dataset

The following examples are executed with this data et. You can create this dataset
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Deleting a node

The `DELETE` clause can be used to delete a node:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country {name: 'United Kingdom'})
DELETE c;
```

Output:

```nocopy
Failed to remove node because of it's existing connections. Consider using DETACH DELETE.
```

On the dataset we are using, this query results in an error because `DELETE`
can only be used on nodes that have no relationships.

## 2. Deleting a node and its relationships

The `DELETE` clause can be used to delete a node along with all of its
relationships with the keyword `DETACH`:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Country {name: 'United Kingdom'})
DETACH DELETE n;
```

Output:

```nocopy
Empty set (0.001 sec)
```

## 3. Deleting a relationship

The `DELETE` clause can be used to delete a relationship:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Country {name: 'Germany'})<-[r:LIVING_IN]-()
DELETE r;
```

Output:

```nocopy
Empty set (0.003 sec)
```

## 4. Deleting a path

The `DELETE` clause can be used to delete a path.

The following query will delete all the nodes connected to the person `Anna`
with a `:LIVING_IN` relationship, as well as all the relationships of those
deleted nodes. 

```
MATCH p = (:Person {name:"Anna"})-[:LIVING_IN]->()
DETACH DELETE p;

MATCH (n)-[r]-(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```

Result:

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/DELETE/living_in_path.png)

The following query will delete all nodes that are 1 hop away from the node
`Anna` and all their relationships, leaving only the `France` node: 

```
MATCH p = (:Person {name:"Anna"})-->()
DETACH DELETE p;

MATCH (n)
RETURN (n);
```

The following query will delete all nodes that are 2 hop away from the node
`Anna` and all their relationships, leaving an empty database: 

```
MATCH p = (:Person {name:"Anna"})-->()--()
DETACH DELETE p;
```

## 5. Deleting everything

To delete all nodes and relationships in a graph, use the following query:

```cypher
MATCH (n)
DETACH DELETE n;
```

Output:

```nocopy
Empty set (0.001 sec)
```

## Dataset queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our dataset locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name = 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name = 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```

Commit message:

Add delete workaround (#503)
* Add delete workaround

* put in appropriate section

* Update delete.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Kruno Golubic <46486712+kgolubic@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/querying/clauses/delete.md, after:

---
title: DELETE clause
description: Learn to effectively use the DELETE clause in Memgraph. Our comprehensive documentation ensures competent data management for graph computing.
---

# DELETE clause

The `DELETE` clause is used to delete nodes and relationships from the database.

1. [Deleting a node](#1-deleting-a-node) <br />
2. [Deleting a node and its relationships](#2-deleting-a-node-and-its-relationships) <br />
3. [Deleting a relationship](#3-deleting-a-relationship) <br />
4. [Deleting a path](#4-deleting-a-path) <br />
5. [Deleting everything](#4-deleting-everything)

## Dataset

The following examples are executed with this data et. You can create this dataset
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Deleting a node

The `DELETE` clause can be used to delete a node:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country {name: 'United Kingdom'})
DELETE c;
```

Output:

```nocopy
Failed to remove node because of it's existing connections. Consider using DETACH DELETE.
```

On the dataset we are using, this query results in an error because `DELETE`
can only be used on nodes that have no relationships.

## 2. Deleting a node and its relationships

The `DELETE` clause can be used to delete a node along with all of its
relationships with the keyword `DETACH`:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Country {name: 'United Kingdom'})
DETACH DELETE n;
```

Output:

```nocopy
Empty set (0.001 sec)
```

## 3. Deleting a relationship

The `DELETE` clause can be used to delete a relationship:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Country {name: 'Germany'})<-[r:LIVING_IN]-()
DELETE r;
```

Output:

```nocopy
Empty set (0.003 sec)
```

## 4. Deleting a path

The `DELETE` clause can be used to delete a path.

The following query will delete all the nodes connected to the person `Anna`
with a `:LIVING_IN` relationship, as well as all the relationships of those
deleted nodes. 

```
MATCH p = (:Person {name:"Anna"})-[:LIVING_IN]->()
DETACH DELETE p;

MATCH (n)-[r]-(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```

Result:

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/DELETE/living_in_path.png)

The following query will delete all nodes that are 1 hop away from the node
`Anna` and all their relationships, leaving only the `France` node: 

```
MATCH p = (:Person {name:"Anna"})-->()
DETACH DELETE p;

MATCH (n)
RETURN (n);
```

The following query will delete all nodes that are 2 hop away from the node
`Anna` and all their relationships, leaving an empty database: 

```
MATCH p = (:Person {name:"Anna"})-->()--()
DETACH DELETE p;
```

## 5. Deleting everything

To delete all nodes and relationships in a graph, use the following query:

```cypher
MATCH (n)
DETACH DELETE n;
```

Output:

```nocopy
Empty set (0.001 sec)
```

### How to lower memory consumption

Matching nodes and then deleting relationships attached to them can consume a lot of memory in larger datasets (>1M). This is due to the accumulation of `Deltas`, which store changes to the graph objects. To avoid this and efficiently drop the database, first delete all relationships and then all nodes. To delete the relationships, execute the query below repeatedly until the number of deleted relationships is 100,000. 

```cypher
MATCH ()-[r]->()
WITH r
LIMIT 100000
DELETE r
RETURN count(r) AS num_deleted;
```

After deleting all relationships, run the following query repeatedly until the number of deleted nodes is 100,000 to delete all nodes:

```cypher
MATCH (n)
WITH n
LIMIT 100000
DELETE n
RETURN count(n) AS num_deleted;
```

If the deletion still consumes too much memory, consider lowering the batch size limit. 

## Dataset queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our dataset locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name = 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name = 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```
