pages/querying/clauses/match.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# MATCH clause

The `MATCH` clause is used to obtain data from the database by matching it to a given pattern.

1. [Matching nodes](#1-matching-nodes) <br />
    1.1. [Get all nodes](#11-get-all-nodes) <br />
    1.2. [Get all nodes with a label](#12-get-all-nodes-with-a-label) <br />
2. [Matching relationships](#2-matching-relationships) <br />
    2.1. [Get all related nodes](#21-get-all-related-nodes) <br />
    2.2. [Get related nodes with a label](#22-get-related-nodes-with-a-label) <br />
    2.3. [Get related nodes with a directed relationship](#23-get-related-nodes-with-a-directed-relationship) <br />
    2.4. [Get a relationship](#24-get-a-relationship) <br />
    2.5. [Matching on a relationship with a type](#25-matching-on-a-relationship-with-a-type) <br />
    2.6. [Matching on relationships with multiple types](#26-matching-on-relationships-with-multiple-types) <br />
    2.7. [Uncommon characters in relationship types](#27-uncommon-characters-in-relationship-types) <br />
    2.8. [Match with multiple relationships](#28-match-with-multiple-relationships) <br />
3. [Matching with variable length relationships](#3-matching-with-variable-length-relationships) <br />
    3.1. [Variable length relationships](#31-variable-length-relationships) <br />
    3.2. [Variable length relationships with multiple relationship types](#32-variable-length-relationships-with-multiple-relationship-types) <br />
    3.3. [Returning multiple relationships with variable length](#33-returning-multiple-relationships-with-variable-length) <br />
4. [Using multiple MATCH clauses](#4-using-multiple-match-clauses) <br />
    4.1. [Cartesian product of nodes](#41-cartesian-product-of-nodes) <br />
    4.2. [Creating a list](#42-creating-a-list) <br />

<Callout>

Each node and relationship gets a identifier generated during their initialization which is persisted through the durability mechanism.

Return it with the [`id()` function](/querying/functions). 

</Callout>

## Data Set

The following examples are executed with this data set. You can create this data set 
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Matching nodes

### 1.1. Get all nodes

Without specifying labels, the query will return all the nodes in a graph:

```cypher
MATCH (n) 
RETURN n;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "German", name: "Germany", population: 83000000})         |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "French", name: "France", population: 67000000})          |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "English", name: "United Kingdom", population: 66000000}) |
| (:Person {name: "John"})                                                                            |
| (:Person {name: "Harry"})                                                                           |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})                                                                            |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### 1.2. Get all nodes with a label

By specifying the label of a node, all the nodes with that label are returned:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
RETURN c;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| c                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "German", name: "Germany", population: 83000000})         |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "French", name: "France", population: 67000000})          |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "English", name: "United Kingdom", population: 66000000}) |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## 2. Matching relationships

### 2.1. Get all related nodes

By using the *related to* symbol `--`, nodes that have a relationship with the specified node can be returned.
The symbol represents an undirected relationship which means the direction of the relationship is not taken into account.

```cypher
MATCH (:Person {name: 'John'})--(n)
RETURN n;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n                                                                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})                                                                    |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "French", name: "France", population: 67000000})  |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "German", name: "Germany", population: 83000000}) |
| (:Person {name: "Harry"})                                                                   |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### 2.2. Get related nodes with a label

To only return *related to* nodes with a specific label you need to add it using the label syntax:

```cypher
MATCH (:Person {name: 'John'})--(p:Person)
RETURN p;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------------------------+
| p                         |
+---------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Harry"}) |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})  |
+---------------------------+
```

### 2.3. Get related nodes with a directed relationship

The *related to* symbol `--` can be extended by using:
 * `-->` to specify outgoing relationships,
 * `<--` to specify ingoing relationships.

```cypher
MATCH (:Country {name: 'France'})<--(p:Person)
RETURN p;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------------------+
| p                        |
+--------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "John"}) |
+--------------------------+
```

### 2.4. Get a relationship

If you want to return the relationship between two nodes or a property of the relationship, a variable is required.
A directed or undirected relationship can be used.

This query returns the relationship and its type:

```cypher
MATCH (:Person {name: 'John'})-[r]->()
RETURN type(r);
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------+
| type(r)      |
+--------------+
| WORKING_IN   |
| LIVING_IN    |
| FRIENDS_WITH |
+--------------+
```

This query also returns the property `date_of_start` of the relationship:

```cypher
MATCH (:Person {name: 'John'})-[r]->()
RETURN type(r), r.date_of_start;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------------+-----------------+
| type(r)         | r.date_of_start |
+-----------------+-----------------+
| WORKING_IN      | 2014            |
| LIVING_IN       | 2014            |
| FRIENDS_WITH    | 2011            |
+-----------------+-----------------+
```

### 2.5. Matching on a relationship with a type

To return a relationship with a specified type you need to use the type syntax.
A directed or undirected relationship can be used:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN]->(c)
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------+
| c.name  |
+---------+
| Germany |
+---------+
```

### 2.6. Matching on relationships with multiple types

To return relationships with any of the specified types, the types need to be chained together with the pipe symbol `|`:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN |:WORKING_IN]->(c)
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------+
| c.name  |
+---------+
| France  |
| Germany |
+---------+
```

### 2.7. Uncommon characters in relationship types 

If a type has non-letter characters, like spaces, for example, the backtick symbol \` needs to be used to quote these.
If the relationship type `LIVING_IN` had a space instead of an underscore, a possible query would look like this.

```cypher
MATCH (:Country {name: 'France'})<-[r:`LIVING IN`]-()
RETURN r.name;
```

### 2.8. Match with multiple relationships

Multiple relationship statements can be specified in the query:

```cypher
MATCH (:Country {name: 'France'})<-[l:WORKING_IN]-(p)-[w:LIVING_IN]->(:Country {name: 'Germany'})
RETURN p.name;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------+
| p.name |
+--------+
| John   |
+--------+
```

## 3. Matching with variable length relationships

### 3.1. Variable length relationships

If a node needs to be specified by its distance in relationship→node hops, the following syntax is used: `-[:TYPE*minHops..maxHops]→`.
`minHops` and `maxHops` are optional and default to 1 and infinity respectively.
The dots can be omitted if both are not specified or if only one is set which
implies a fixed length pattern.

```cypher
MATCH ({name: 'United Kingdom'})<-[:LIVING_IN*1..2]-(n)
RETURN n;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n                                                                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Harry"})                                                                   |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})                                                                    |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "German", name: "Germany", population: 83000000}) |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### 3.2. Variable length relationships with multiple relationship types

If variable lengths are used with multiple stacked up relationship types, `*minHops..maxHops` applies to any combination of relationships:

```cypher
MATCH ({name: 'United Kingdom'})<-[:WORKING_IN|FRIENDS_WITH*1..2]-(p:Person)
RETURN p;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------------------------+
| p                         |
+---------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "John"})  |
| (:Person {name: "Harry"}) |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})  |
+---------------------------+
```

### 3.3. Returning multiple relationships with variable length

If a variable length is used, the list of relationships can be returned by adding `variable=` at the beginning of the `MATCH` clause:

```cypher
MATCH p=({name: 'John'})<-[:FRIENDS_WITH*1..2]-()
RETURN relationships(p);
```

Output:
```nocopy
+----------------------------------------+
| relationships(p)                       |
+----------------------------------------+
| [[FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]] |
+----------------------------------------+
```

## 4. Using multiple `MATCH` clauses

### 4.1. Cartesian product of nodes

To create a Cartesian product, match the nodes in two separate `MATCH` queries. 

For example, the following query will match each person from the dataset with each European country from the dataset: 

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
MATCH (c:Country {continent: "Europe"})
RETURN p.name,c.name;
```

Output: 
```nocopy 
+------------------+------------------+
| p.name           | c.name           |
+------------------+------------------+
| "John"           | "Germany"        |
| "Harry"          | "Germany"        |
| "Anna"           | "Germany"        |
| "John"           | "France"         |
| "Harry"          | "France"         |
| "Anna"           | "France"         |
| "John"           | "United Kingdom" |
| "Harry"          | "United Kingdom" |
| "Anna"           | "United Kingdom" |
+------------------+------------------+
```

The query returns the Cartesian product of matched nodes. The output of the first `MATCH` clause is matched with each output of the second `MATCH` clause. In this case, each person from the dataset is matched with each European country. 

### 4.2. Creating a list

If you want to create a list containing the results of different `MATCH` queries, you can achieve that with multiple `MATCH` clauses in one query:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
WITH COLLECT(p.name) as people
MATCH (c:Country {continent: "Europe"})
WITH people + COLLECT(c.name) as names
RETURN names;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| names                                                            |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ["John", "Harry", "Anna", "Germany", "France", "United Kingdom"] |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

The query returns a list of names of all people from the dataset concatenated with the names of all European countries. 

<Callout type="warning">

If any of the sets `MATCH` clause returns is empty, the whole output will be an empty list.

</Callout>

The following query will return an empty list:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
WITH COLLECT(p.name) as people
MATCH (c:Country {continent: "Asia"})
WITH people + COLLECT(c.name) as names
RETURN names;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+-------+
| names |
+-------+
| Null  |
+-------+
```

Since the dataset doesn't contain any nodes labeled as `Country` with a property `continent` with the value `Asia`, the second `MATCH` clause returns an empty dataset and therefore the output is also an empty list. To avoid getting an empty list as an output, due to any of the `MATCH` clauses returning an empty set, use `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause: 

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
WITH COLLECT(p.name) as people
OPTIONAL MATCH (c:Country {continent: "Asia"})
WITH people + COLLECT(c.name) as names
RETURN names;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+---------------------------+
| names                     |
+---------------------------+
| ["John", "Harry", "Anna"] |
+---------------------------+
```

The `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause bypasses the empty set and the query returns only non-empty sets. Therefore, the output of the query is a list containing only the results of the first `MATCH` clause.    

## Dataset Queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our data set locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name = 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name = 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/querying/clauses/match.mdx, after:

---
title: MATCH clause
description: Dive into the workings of the MATCH clause in Memgraph. Detailed guide exploring its potential in your graph use case.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# MATCH clause

The `MATCH` clause is used to obtain data from the database by matching it to a given pattern.

1. [Matching nodes](#1-matching-nodes) <br />
    1.1. [Get all nodes](#11-get-all-nodes) <br />
    1.2. [Get all nodes with a label](#12-get-all-nodes-with-a-label) <br />
2. [Matching relationships](#2-matching-relationships) <br />
    2.1. [Get all related nodes](#21-get-all-related-nodes) <br />
    2.2. [Get related nodes with a label](#22-get-related-nodes-with-a-label) <br />
    2.3. [Get related nodes with a directed relationship](#23-get-related-nodes-with-a-directed-relationship) <br />
    2.4. [Get a relationship](#24-get-a-relationship) <br />
    2.5. [Matching on a relationship with a type](#25-matching-on-a-relationship-with-a-type) <br />
    2.6. [Matching on relationships with multiple types](#26-matching-on-relationships-with-multiple-types) <br />
    2.7. [Uncommon characters in relationship types](#27-uncommon-characters-in-relationship-types) <br />
    2.8. [Match with multiple relationships](#28-match-with-multiple-relationships) <br />
3. [Matching with variable length relationships](#3-matching-with-variable-length-relationships) <br />
    3.1. [Variable length relationships](#31-variable-length-relationships) <br />
    3.2. [Variable length relationships with multiple relationship types](#32-variable-length-relationships-with-multiple-relationship-types) <br />
    3.3. [Returning multiple relationships with variable length](#33-returning-multiple-relationships-with-variable-length) <br />
4. [Using multiple MATCH clauses](#4-using-multiple-match-clauses) <br />
    4.1. [Cartesian product of nodes](#41-cartesian-product-of-nodes) <br />
    4.2. [Creating a list](#42-creating-a-list) <br />

<Callout>

Each node and relationship gets a identifier generated during their initialization which is persisted through the durability mechanism.

Return it with the [`id()` function](/querying/functions). 

</Callout>

## Data Set

The following examples are executed with this data set. You can create this data set 
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Matching nodes

### 1.1. Get all nodes

Without specifying labels, the query will return all the nodes in a graph:

```cypher
MATCH (n) 
RETURN n;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "German", name: "Germany", population: 83000000})         |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "French", name: "France", population: 67000000})          |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "English", name: "United Kingdom", population: 66000000}) |
| (:Person {name: "John"})                                                                            |
| (:Person {name: "Harry"})                                                                           |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})                                                                            |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### 1.2. Get all nodes with a label

By specifying the label of a node, all the nodes with that label are returned:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
RETURN c;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| c                                                                                                   |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "German", name: "Germany", population: 83000000})         |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "French", name: "France", population: 67000000})          |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "English", name: "United Kingdom", population: 66000000}) |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## 2. Matching relationships

### 2.1. Get all related nodes

By using the *related to* symbol `--`, nodes that have a relationship with the specified node can be returned.
The symbol represents an undirected relationship which means the direction of the relationship is not taken into account.

```cypher
MATCH (:Person {name: 'John'})--(n)
RETURN n;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n                                                                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})                                                                    |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "French", name: "France", population: 67000000})  |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "German", name: "Germany", population: 83000000}) |
| (:Person {name: "Harry"})                                                                   |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### 2.2. Get related nodes with a label

To only return *related to* nodes with a specific label you need to add it using the label syntax:

```cypher
MATCH (:Person {name: 'John'})--(p:Person)
RETURN p;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------------------------+
| p                         |
+---------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Harry"}) |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})  |
+---------------------------+
```

### 2.3. Get related nodes with a directed relationship

The *related to* symbol `--` can be extended by using:
 * `-->` to specify outgoing relationships,
 * `<--` to specify ingoing relationships.

```cypher
MATCH (:Country {name: 'France'})<--(p:Person)
RETURN p;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------------------+
| p                        |
+--------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "John"}) |
+--------------------------+
```

### 2.4. Get a relationship

If you want to return the relationship between two nodes or a property of the relationship, a variable is required.
A directed or undirected relationship can be used.

This query returns the relationship and its type:

```cypher
MATCH (:Person {name: 'John'})-[r]->()
RETURN type(r);
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------+
| type(r)      |
+--------------+
| WORKING_IN   |
| LIVING_IN    |
| FRIENDS_WITH |
+--------------+
```

This query also returns the property `date_of_start` of the relationship:

```cypher
MATCH (:Person {name: 'John'})-[r]->()
RETURN type(r), r.date_of_start;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------------+-----------------+
| type(r)         | r.date_of_start |
+-----------------+-----------------+
| WORKING_IN      | 2014            |
| LIVING_IN       | 2014            |
| FRIENDS_WITH    | 2011            |
+-----------------+-----------------+
```

### 2.5. Matching on a relationship with a type

To return a relationship with a specified type you need to use the type syntax.
A directed or undirected relationship can be used:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN]->(c)
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------+
| c.name  |
+---------+
| Germany |
+---------+
```

### 2.6. Matching on relationships with multiple types

To return relationships with any of the specified types, the types need to be chained together with the pipe symbol `|`:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN |:WORKING_IN]->(c)
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------+
| c.name  |
+---------+
| France  |
| Germany |
+---------+
```

### 2.7. Uncommon characters in relationship types 

If a type has non-letter characters, like spaces, for example, the backtick symbol \` needs to be used to quote these.
If the relationship type `LIVING_IN` had a space instead of an underscore, a possible query would look like this.

```cypher
MATCH (:Country {name: 'France'})<-[r:`LIVING IN`]-()
RETURN r.name;
```

### 2.8. Match with multiple relationships

Multiple relationship statements can be specified in the query:

```cypher
MATCH (:Country {name: 'France'})<-[l:WORKING_IN]-(p)-[w:LIVING_IN]->(:Country {name: 'Germany'})
RETURN p.name;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------+
| p.name |
+--------+
| John   |
+--------+
```

## 3. Matching with variable length relationships

### 3.1. Variable length relationships

If a node needs to be specified by its distance in relationship→node hops, the following syntax is used: `-[:TYPE*minHops..maxHops]→`.
`minHops` and `maxHops` are optional and default to 1 and infinity respectively.
The dots can be omitted if both are not specified or if only one is set which
implies a fixed length pattern.

```cypher
MATCH ({name: 'United Kingdom'})<-[:LIVING_IN*1..2]-(n)
RETURN n;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n                                                                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Harry"})                                                                   |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})                                                                    |
| (:Country {continent: "Europe", language: "German", name: "Germany", population: 83000000}) |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### 3.2. Variable length relationships with multiple relationship types

If variable lengths are used with multiple stacked up relationship types, `*minHops..maxHops` applies to any combination of relationships:

```cypher
MATCH ({name: 'United Kingdom'})<-[:WORKING_IN|FRIENDS_WITH*1..2]-(p:Person)
RETURN p;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------------------------+
| p                         |
+---------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "John"})  |
| (:Person {name: "Harry"}) |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})  |
+---------------------------+
```

### 3.3. Returning multiple relationships with variable length

If a variable length is used, the list of relationships can be returned by adding `variable=` at the beginning of the `MATCH` clause:

```cypher
MATCH p=({name: 'John'})<-[:FRIENDS_WITH*1..2]-()
RETURN relationships(p);
```

Output:
```nocopy
+----------------------------------------+
| relationships(p)                       |
+----------------------------------------+
| [[FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]] |
+----------------------------------------+
```

## 4. Using multiple `MATCH` clauses

### 4.1. Cartesian product of nodes

To create a Cartesian product, match the nodes in two separate `MATCH` queries. 

For example, the following query will match each person from the dataset with each European country from the dataset: 

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
MATCH (c:Country {continent: "Europe"})
RETURN p.name,c.name;
```

Output: 
```nocopy 
+------------------+------------------+
| p.name           | c.name           |
+------------------+------------------+
| "John"           | "Germany"        |
| "Harry"          | "Germany"        |
| "Anna"           | "Germany"        |
| "John"           | "France"         |
| "Harry"          | "France"         |
| "Anna"           | "France"         |
| "John"           | "United Kingdom" |
| "Harry"          | "United Kingdom" |
| "Anna"           | "United Kingdom" |
+------------------+------------------+
```

The query returns the Cartesian product of matched nodes. The output of the first `MATCH` clause is matched with each output of the second `MATCH` clause. In this case, each person from the dataset is matched with each European country. 

### 4.2. Creating a list

If you want to create a list containing the results of different `MATCH` queries, you can achieve that with multiple `MATCH` clauses in one query:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
WITH COLLECT(p.name) as people
MATCH (c:Country {continent: "Europe"})
WITH people + COLLECT(c.name) as names
RETURN names;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| names                                                            |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ["John", "Harry", "Anna", "Germany", "France", "United Kingdom"] |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

The query returns a list of names of all people from the dataset concatenated with the names of all European countries. 

<Callout type="warning">

If any of the sets `MATCH` clause returns is empty, the whole output will be an empty list.

</Callout>

The following query will return an empty list:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
WITH COLLECT(p.name) as people
MATCH (c:Country {continent: "Asia"})
WITH people + COLLECT(c.name) as names
RETURN names;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+-------+
| names |
+-------+
| Null  |
+-------+
```

Since the dataset doesn't contain any nodes labeled as `Country` with a property `continent` with the value `Asia`, the second `MATCH` clause returns an empty dataset and therefore the output is also an empty list. To avoid getting an empty list as an output, due to any of the `MATCH` clauses returning an empty set, use `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause: 

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
WITH COLLECT(p.name) as people
OPTIONAL MATCH (c:Country {continent: "Asia"})
WITH people + COLLECT(c.name) as names
RETURN names;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+---------------------------+
| names                     |
+---------------------------+
| ["John", "Harry", "Anna"] |
+---------------------------+
```

The `OPTIONAL MATCH` clause bypasses the empty set and the query returns only non-empty sets. Therefore, the output of the query is a list containing only the results of the first `MATCH` clause.    

## Dataset Queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our data set locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name = 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name = 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```
