pages/querying/clauses/merge.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# MERGE clause

The `MERGE` clause is used to ensure that a pattern you are looking for exists
in the database. This means that if the pattern is not found, it will be
created. In a way, this clause is like a combination of `MATCH` and `CREATE`.

<Callout type="info">

Indexing can increase performance when executing queries. Please take a look at
our [documentation on indexing](/fundamentals/indexes) for
more details.

</Callout>

1. [Merging nodes](#1-merging-nodes) <br />
    1.1. [Merging nodes with labels](#11-merging-nodes-with-labels)<br />
    1.2. [Merging nodes with properties](#12-merging-nodes-with-properties)<br />
    1.3. [Merging nodes with labels and properties](#13-merging-nodes-with-labels-and-properties)<br />
    1.4. [Merging nodes with existing node properties](#14-merging-nodes-with-existing-node-properties)<br />
2. [Merging relationships](#2-merging-relationships)<br />
    2.1. [Merging relationships](#21-merging-relationships)<br />
    2.2. [Merging on undirected relationships](#22-merging-on-undirected-relationships)<br />
3. [Merging with ON CREATE and ON MATCH](#3-merging-with-on-create-set-and-on-match-set)<br />
    3.1. [Merging with ON CREATE SET](#31-merging-with-on-create-set)<br />
    3.2. [Merging with ON MATCH SET](#32-merging-with-on-match-set)<br />
    3.3. [Merging with ON CREATE SET and ON MATCH SET](#33-merging-with-on-create-set-and-on-match-set)<br />
    3.4. [Merging with SET](#34-merging-with-set)<br />
    3.5. [Combination of clauses](#35-combination-of-clauses)

## Data Set

The following examples are executed with this data set. You can create this data set 
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Merging nodes

### 1.1. Merging nodes with labels

If `MERGE` is used on a node with a label that doesn't exist in the database, the node is created:

```cypher
MERGE (city:City)
RETURN city;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------+
| city    |
+---------+
| (:City) |
+---------+
```

### 1.2. Merging nodes with properties

If `MERGE` is used on a node with properties that don't match any existing node, that node is created:

```cypher
MERGE (city {name: 'London'})
RETURN city;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------------+
| city               |
+--------------------+
| ({name: "London"}) |
+--------------------+
```

### 1.3. Merging nodes with labels and properties

If `MERGE` is used on a node with labels and properties that don't match any existing node, that node is created:

```cypher
MERGE (city:City {name: 'London'})
RETURN city;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------------------+
| city                     |
+--------------------------+
| (:City {name: "London"}) |
+--------------------------+
```

### 1.4. Merging nodes with existing node properties

If `MERGE` is used with properties on an existing node, a new node is created for each unique value of that property:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
MERGE (h:Human {name: p.name})
RETURN h.name;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------+
| h.name |
+--------+
| John   |
| Harry  |
| Anna   |
+--------+
```

## 2. Merging relationships

### 2.1. Merging relationships

Just as with nodes, `MERGE` can be used to match or create relationships:

```cypher
MATCH (p1:Person {name: 'John'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
MERGE (p1)-[r:RELATED]->(p2)
RETURN r;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------+
| r         |
+-----------+
| [RELATED] |
+-----------+
```

Multiple relationships can be matched or created with `MERGE` in the same query:

```cypher
MATCH (p1:Person {name: 'John'}), (p2:Person {name:'Anna'})
MERGE (p1)-[r1:RELATED_TO]->(p2)-[r2:RELATED_TO]->(p1)
RETURN r1, r2;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------+--------------+
| r1           | r2           |
+--------------+--------------+
| [RELATED_TO] | [RELATED_TO] |
+--------------+--------------+
```

### 2.2. Merging on undirected relationships

If `MERGE` is used on an undirected relationship, the direction will be chosen at random:

```cypher
MATCH (p1:Person {name: 'John'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
MERGE path=((p1)-[r:WORKS_WITH]->(p2))
RETURN path;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| p                                                               |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "John"})-[WORKS_WITH]->(:Person {name: "Anna"}) |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
```

In this example, a path is returned to show the direction of the relationships.

## 3. Merging with `ON CREATE SET` and `ON MATCH SET`

### 3.1. Merging with `ON CREATE SET`

The `ON CREATE SET` part of a `MERGE` clause will only be executed if the node needs to be created:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Lucille'})
ON CREATE SET p.date_of_creation = timestamp()
RETURN p.name, p.date_of_creation;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------------+--------------------+
| p.name             | p.date_of_creation |
+--------------------+--------------------+
| Lucille            | 1605080852685000   |
+--------------------+--------------------+
```

### 3.2. Merging with `ON MATCH SET`

The `ON MATCH SET` part of a `MERGE` clause will only be executed if the node is found:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'John'})
ON MATCH SET p.found = TRUE
RETURN p.name, p.found;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------+---------+
| p.name  | p.found |
+---------+---------+
| John    | true    |
+---------+---------+
```

### 3.3. Merging with `ON CREATE SET` and `ON MATCH SET`

The `MERGE` clause can be used with both the `ON CREATE SET` and `ON MATCH SET` options:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Angela'})
ON CREATE SET p.notFound = TRUE
ON MATCH SET p.found = TRUE
RETURN p.name, p.notFound, p.found;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+------------+------------+------------+
| p.name     | p.notFound | p.found    |
+------------+------------+------------+
| Angela     | true       | Null       |
+------------+------------+------------+
```

### 3.4. Merging with `SET`

If a certain property wants to be set to the same value in the case of `ON
CREATE SET` and `ON MATCH SET` you can just use `SET`:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Angela'})
ON CREATE SET p.found = TRUE
ON MATCH SET p.found = TRUE;
```

is the same as the query below:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Angela'})
SET p.Found = TRUE;
```

### 3.5. Combination of clauses

You can also combine all three clauses (`ON CREATE SET`, `ON MATCH SET` and
`SET`) to set a certain property depending on whether the node has been merged
or created, and to set another property to a certain value regardless of the
creation or merger of the node:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Angela'})
ON CREATE SET p.found = FALSE
ON MATCH SET p.found = TRUE
SET p.last_name = 'Smith'
```

The `found` property will be set to `FALSE` if the node was created, on `TRUE`
if it was merged, but in any case, the last name will be set to `Smith`.

## Dataset Queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our data set locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name = 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name = 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/querying/clauses/merge.mdx, after:

---
title: MERGE clause
description: Get your hands on the MERGE clause in Memgraph. Our detailed documentation ensures you harness its full potential for a streamlined graph computing process. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# MERGE clause

The `MERGE` clause is used to ensure that a pattern you are looking for exists
in the database. This means that if the pattern is not found, it will be
created. In a way, this clause is like a combination of `MATCH` and `CREATE`.

<Callout type="info">

Indexing can increase performance when executing queries. Please take a look at
our [documentation on indexing](/fundamentals/indexes) for
more details.

</Callout>

1. [Merging nodes](#1-merging-nodes) <br />
    1.1. [Merging nodes with labels](#11-merging-nodes-with-labels)<br />
    1.2. [Merging nodes with properties](#12-merging-nodes-with-properties)<br />
    1.3. [Merging nodes with labels and properties](#13-merging-nodes-with-labels-and-properties)<br />
    1.4. [Merging nodes with existing node properties](#14-merging-nodes-with-existing-node-properties)<br />
2. [Merging relationships](#2-merging-relationships)<br />
    2.1. [Merging relationships](#21-merging-relationships)<br />
    2.2. [Merging on undirected relationships](#22-merging-on-undirected-relationships)<br />
3. [Merging with ON CREATE and ON MATCH](#3-merging-with-on-create-set-and-on-match-set)<br />
    3.1. [Merging with ON CREATE SET](#31-merging-with-on-create-set)<br />
    3.2. [Merging with ON MATCH SET](#32-merging-with-on-match-set)<br />
    3.3. [Merging with ON CREATE SET and ON MATCH SET](#33-merging-with-on-create-set-and-on-match-set)<br />
    3.4. [Merging with SET](#34-merging-with-set)<br />
    3.5. [Combination of clauses](#35-combination-of-clauses)

## Data Set

The following examples are executed with this data set. You can create this data set 
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Merging nodes

### 1.1. Merging nodes with labels

If `MERGE` is used on a node with a label that doesn't exist in the database, the node is created:

```cypher
MERGE (city:City)
RETURN city;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------+
| city    |
+---------+
| (:City) |
+---------+
```

### 1.2. Merging nodes with properties

If `MERGE` is used on a node with properties that don't match any existing node, that node is created:

```cypher
MERGE (city {name: 'London'})
RETURN city;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------------+
| city               |
+--------------------+
| ({name: "London"}) |
+--------------------+
```

### 1.3. Merging nodes with labels and properties

If `MERGE` is used on a node with labels and properties that don't match any existing node, that node is created:

```cypher
MERGE (city:City {name: 'London'})
RETURN city;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------------------+
| city                     |
+--------------------------+
| (:City {name: "London"}) |
+--------------------------+
```

### 1.4. Merging nodes with existing node properties

If `MERGE` is used with properties on an existing node, a new node is created for each unique value of that property:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
MERGE (h:Human {name: p.name})
RETURN h.name;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------+
| h.name |
+--------+
| John   |
| Harry  |
| Anna   |
+--------+
```

## 2. Merging relationships

### 2.1. Merging relationships

Just as with nodes, `MERGE` can be used to match or create relationships:

```cypher
MATCH (p1:Person {name: 'John'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
MERGE (p1)-[r:RELATED]->(p2)
RETURN r;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------+
| r         |
+-----------+
| [RELATED] |
+-----------+
```

Multiple relationships can be matched or created with `MERGE` in the same query:

```cypher
MATCH (p1:Person {name: 'John'}), (p2:Person {name:'Anna'})
MERGE (p1)-[r1:RELATED_TO]->(p2)-[r2:RELATED_TO]->(p1)
RETURN r1, r2;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------+--------------+
| r1           | r2           |
+--------------+--------------+
| [RELATED_TO] | [RELATED_TO] |
+--------------+--------------+
```

### 2.2. Merging on undirected relationships

If `MERGE` is used on an undirected relationship, the direction will be chosen at random:

```cypher
MATCH (p1:Person {name: 'John'}), (p2:Person {name: 'Anna'})
MERGE path=((p1)-[r:WORKS_WITH]->(p2))
RETURN path;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| p                                                               |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "John"})-[WORKS_WITH]->(:Person {name: "Anna"}) |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
```

In this example, a path is returned to show the direction of the relationships.

## 3. Merging with `ON CREATE SET` and `ON MATCH SET`

### 3.1. Merging with `ON CREATE SET`

The `ON CREATE SET` part of a `MERGE` clause will only be executed if the node needs to be created:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Lucille'})
ON CREATE SET p.date_of_creation = timestamp()
RETURN p.name, p.date_of_creation;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+--------------------+--------------------+
| p.name             | p.date_of_creation |
+--------------------+--------------------+
| Lucille            | 1605080852685000   |
+--------------------+--------------------+
```

### 3.2. Merging with `ON MATCH SET`

The `ON MATCH SET` part of a `MERGE` clause will only be executed if the node is found:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'John'})
ON MATCH SET p.found = TRUE
RETURN p.name, p.found;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+---------+---------+
| p.name  | p.found |
+---------+---------+
| John    | true    |
+---------+---------+
```

### 3.3. Merging with `ON CREATE SET` and `ON MATCH SET`

The `MERGE` clause can be used with both the `ON CREATE SET` and `ON MATCH SET` options:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Angela'})
ON CREATE SET p.notFound = TRUE
ON MATCH SET p.found = TRUE
RETURN p.name, p.notFound, p.found;
```

Output:
```nocopy
+------------+------------+------------+
| p.name     | p.notFound | p.found    |
+------------+------------+------------+
| Angela     | true       | Null       |
+------------+------------+------------+
```

### 3.4. Merging with `SET`

If a certain property wants to be set to the same value in the case of `ON
CREATE SET` and `ON MATCH SET` you can just use `SET`:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Angela'})
ON CREATE SET p.found = TRUE
ON MATCH SET p.found = TRUE;
```

is the same as the query below:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Angela'})
SET p.Found = TRUE;
```

### 3.5. Combination of clauses

You can also combine all three clauses (`ON CREATE SET`, `ON MATCH SET` and
`SET`) to set a certain property depending on whether the node has been merged
or created, and to set another property to a certain value regardless of the
creation or merger of the node:

```cypher
MERGE (p:Person {name: 'Angela'})
ON CREATE SET p.found = FALSE
ON MATCH SET p.found = TRUE
SET p.last_name = 'Smith'
```

The `found` property will be set to `FALSE` if the node was created, on `TRUE`
if it was merged, but in any case, the last name will be set to `Smith`.

## Dataset Queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our data set locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name = 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name = 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```
