pages/querying/clauses/union.md, before:

# UNION clause

The `UNION` clause is used to combine the result of multiple queries.

1. [Combine queries and retain duplicates](#1-combine-queries-and-retain-duplicates) <br />
2. [Combine queries and remove duplicates](#2-combine-queries-and-remove-duplicates)

## Dataset

The following examples are executed with this dataset. You can create this dataset
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Combine queries and retain duplicates

To combine two or more queries and return their results without removing duplicates, use the `UNION ALL` clause.
First, let's add a few existing nodes to the dataset:

```cypher
CREATE (:Person {name: 'John'});
CREATE (:Person {name: 'Anna'});
```

A query with the `UNION ALL` clause could look like this:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
RETURN c.name as columnName
UNION ALL
MATCH (p:Person)
RETURN p.name AS columnName;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| columnName     |
+----------------+
| Germany        |
| France         |
| United Kingdom |
| John           |
| Harry          |
| Anna           |
| John           |
| Anna           |
+----------------+
```

## 2. Combine queries and remove duplicates

To combine two or more queries and return their results while removing duplicates, use the `UNION` clause without `ALL`.

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
RETURN c.name as columnName
UNION
MATCH (p:Person)
RETURN p.name AS columnName;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| columnName     |
+----------------+
| Germany        |
| France         |
| United Kingdom |
| John           |
| Harry          |
| Anna           |
+----------------+
```

## Dataset queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our dataset locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name= 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name= 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

CREATE (:Person {name: 'John'});
CREATE (:Person {name: 'Anna'});

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/querying/clauses/union.md, after:

---
title: UNION clause
description: Combine query results with the UNION operator in Memgraph. Get started on merging data from multiple queries with tutorials and documentation.
---

# UNION clause

The `UNION` clause is used to combine the result of multiple queries.

1. [Combine queries and retain duplicates](#1-combine-queries-and-retain-duplicates) <br />
2. [Combine queries and remove duplicates](#2-combine-queries-and-remove-duplicates)

## Dataset

The following examples are executed with this dataset. You can create this dataset
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Combine queries and retain duplicates

To combine two or more queries and return their results without removing duplicates, use the `UNION ALL` clause.
First, let's add a few existing nodes to the dataset:

```cypher
CREATE (:Person {name: 'John'});
CREATE (:Person {name: 'Anna'});
```

A query with the `UNION ALL` clause could look like this:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
RETURN c.name as columnName
UNION ALL
MATCH (p:Person)
RETURN p.name AS columnName;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| columnName     |
+----------------+
| Germany        |
| France         |
| United Kingdom |
| John           |
| Harry          |
| Anna           |
| John           |
| Anna           |
+----------------+
```

## 2. Combine queries and remove duplicates

To combine two or more queries and return their results while removing duplicates, use the `UNION` clause without `ALL`.

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
RETURN c.name as columnName
UNION
MATCH (p:Person)
RETURN p.name AS columnName;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| columnName     |
+----------------+
| Germany        |
| France         |
| United Kingdom |
| John           |
| Harry          |
| Anna           |
+----------------+
```

## Dataset queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our dataset locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name= 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name= 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

CREATE (:Person {name: 'John'});
CREATE (:Person {name: 'Anna'});

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```
