pages/querying/clauses/where.md, before:

# WHERE clause

`WHERE` isn't usually considered a standalone clause but rather a part of the
`MATCH`, `OPTIONAL MATCH` and `WITH` clauses.

When used next to the `WITH` clause, the `WHERE` clause only filters the
results, while when used with `MATCH` and `OPTIONAL MATCH` it adds constraints
to the described patterns.

`WHERE` should be used directly after `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clauses in
order to avoid problems with performance or results.

1. [Basic usage](#1-basic-usage)<br />
   1.1. [Boolean Operators](#11-boolean-operators)<br />
   1.2. [Inequality Operators Operators](#12-inequality-operators-operators)<br />
   1.3. [Filter with node labels](#13-filter-with-node-labels)<br />
   1.4. [Filter with node properties](#14-filter-with-node-properties)<br />
   1.5. [Filter with relationship properties](#15-filter-with-relationship-properties)<br />
   1.6. [Check if property is not null](#16-check-if-property-is-not-null)<br />
   1.7. [Filter with pattern expressions](#17-filter-with-pattern-expressions)<br />
2. [String matching](#2-string-matching)<br />
3. [Regular Expressions](#3-regular-expressions)

## Dataset

The following examples are executed with this dataset. You can create this dataset
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Basic Usage

### 1.1. Boolean Operators

Standard boolean operators like `NOT`, `AND`, `OR` and `XOR` can be used:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE c.language = 'English' AND  c.continent = 'Europe'
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| c.name         |
+----------------+
| United Kingdom |
+----------------+
```

### 1.2. Inequality Operators Operators

Standard inequality operators like `<`, `<=`, `>` and `>=` can be used:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE (c.population > 80000000)
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+---------+
| c.name  |
+---------+
| Germany |
+---------+
```

### 1.3. Filter with node labels

Nodes can be filtered by their label using the `WHERE` clause instead of specifying it directly in the `MATCH` clause:

```cypher
MATCH (c)
WHERE c:Country
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| c.name         |
+----------------+
| Germany        |
| France         |
| United Kingdom |
+----------------+
```

### 1.4. Filter with node properties

Just as labels, node properties can be used in the WHERE clause to filter nodes:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE c.population < 70000000
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| c.name         |
+----------------+
| France         |
| United Kingdom |
+----------------+
```

### 1.5. Filter with relationship properties

Just as with node properties, relationship properties can be used as filters:

```cypher
MATCH (:Country {name: 'United Kingdom'})-[r]-(p)
WHERE r.date_of_start = 2014
RETURN p;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+---------------------------+
| p                         |
+---------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Harry"}) |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})  |
+---------------------------+
```

### 1.6. Check if property is not null

To check if a node or relationship property exists use the `IS NOT NULL` option:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE c.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c.population IS NOT NULL
RETURN c.name, c.population;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+----------------+
| c.name         | c.population   |
+----------------+----------------+
| United Kingdom | 66000000       |
+----------------+----------------+
```

### 1.7. Filter with pattern expressions

Currently, we support pattern expression filters with the `exists(pattern)` function, which can perform filters based on
neighboring entities:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
WHERE exists((p)-[:LIVING_IN]->(:Country {name: 'Germany'}))
RETURN p.name
ORDER BY p.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| c.name         |
+----------------+
| Anna           |
| John           |
+----------------+
```

## 2. String matching

Apart from comparison and concatenation operators Cypher provides special
string operators for easier matching of substrings:

| Operator          | Description                                                      |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `a STARTS WITH b` | Returns true if the prefix of string a is equal to string b.     |
| `a ENDS WITH b`   | Returns true if the suffix of string a is equal to string b.     |
| `a CONTAINS b`    | Returns true if some substring of string a is equal to string b. |

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE c.name STARTS WITH 'G' AND NOT c.name CONTAINS 't'
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+---------+
| c.name  |
+---------+
| Germany |
+---------+
```

## 3. Regular expressions

Inside `WHERE` clause, you can use regular expressions for text filtering. To
use a regular expression, you need to use the `=~` operator.

For example, finding all `Person` nodes which have a name ending with `a`:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Person) WHERE n.name =~ ".*a$" RETURN n;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+--------------------------+
| n                        |
+--------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Anna"}) |
+--------------------------+
```

The regular expression syntax is based on the modified ECMAScript regular
expression grammar. The ECMAScript grammar can be found
[here](http://ecma-international.org/ecma-262/5.1/#sec-15.10), while the
modifications are described in [this
document](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/regex/ecmascript).

## Dataset queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our dataset locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name= 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name= 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/querying/clauses/where.md, after:

---
title: WHERE clause
description: In Memgraph, easily transform lists into individual rows with the UNWIND operator. Get started with our extensive documentation and other resources available.
---

# WHERE clause

`WHERE` isn't usually considered a standalone clause but rather a part of the
`MATCH`, `OPTIONAL MATCH` and `WITH` clauses.

When used next to the `WITH` clause, the `WHERE` clause only filters the
results, while when used with `MATCH` and `OPTIONAL MATCH` it adds constraints
to the described patterns.

`WHERE` should be used directly after `MATCH` or `OPTIONAL MATCH` clauses in
order to avoid problems with performance or results.

1. [Basic usage](#1-basic-usage)<br />
   1.1. [Boolean Operators](#11-boolean-operators)<br />
   1.2. [Inequality Operators Operators](#12-inequality-operators-operators)<br />
   1.3. [Filter with node labels](#13-filter-with-node-labels)<br />
   1.4. [Filter with node properties](#14-filter-with-node-properties)<br />
   1.5. [Filter with relationship properties](#15-filter-with-relationship-properties)<br />
   1.6. [Check if property is not null](#16-check-if-property-is-not-null)<br />
   1.7. [Filter with pattern expressions](#17-filter-with-pattern-expressions)<br />
2. [String matching](#2-string-matching)<br />
3. [Regular Expressions](#3-regular-expressions)

## Dataset

The following examples are executed with this dataset. You can create this dataset
locally by executing the queries at the end of the page: [Dataset queries](#dataset-queries).

![Data set](/pages/querying/clauses/data_set.png)

## 1. Basic Usage

### 1.1. Boolean Operators

Standard boolean operators like `NOT`, `AND`, `OR` and `XOR` can be used:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE c.language = 'English' AND  c.continent = 'Europe'
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| c.name         |
+----------------+
| United Kingdom |
+----------------+
```

### 1.2. Inequality Operators Operators

Standard inequality operators like `<`, `<=`, `>` and `>=` can be used:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE (c.population > 80000000)
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+---------+
| c.name  |
+---------+
| Germany |
+---------+
```

### 1.3. Filter with node labels

Nodes can be filtered by their label using the `WHERE` clause instead of specifying it directly in the `MATCH` clause:

```cypher
MATCH (c)
WHERE c:Country
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| c.name         |
+----------------+
| Germany        |
| France         |
| United Kingdom |
+----------------+
```

### 1.4. Filter with node properties

Just as labels, node properties can be used in the WHERE clause to filter nodes:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE c.population < 70000000
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| c.name         |
+----------------+
| France         |
| United Kingdom |
+----------------+
```

### 1.5. Filter with relationship properties

Just as with node properties, relationship properties can be used as filters:

```cypher
MATCH (:Country {name: 'United Kingdom'})-[r]-(p)
WHERE r.date_of_start = 2014
RETURN p;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+---------------------------+
| p                         |
+---------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Harry"}) |
| (:Person {name: "Anna"})  |
+---------------------------+
```

### 1.6. Check if property is not null

To check if a node or relationship property exists use the `IS NOT NULL` option:

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE c.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c.population IS NOT NULL
RETURN c.name, c.population;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+----------------+
| c.name         | c.population   |
+----------------+----------------+
| United Kingdom | 66000000       |
+----------------+----------------+
```

### 1.7. Filter with pattern expressions

Currently, we support pattern expression filters with the `exists(pattern)` function, which can perform filters based on
neighboring entities:

```cypher
MATCH (p:Person)
WHERE exists((p)-[:LIVING_IN]->(:Country {name: 'Germany'}))
RETURN p.name
ORDER BY p.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+----------------+
| c.name         |
+----------------+
| Anna           |
| John           |
+----------------+
```

## 2. String matching

Apart from comparison and concatenation operators Cypher provides special
string operators for easier matching of substrings:

| Operator          | Description                                                      |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `a STARTS WITH b` | Returns true if the prefix of string a is equal to string b.     |
| `a ENDS WITH b`   | Returns true if the suffix of string a is equal to string b.     |
| `a CONTAINS b`    | Returns true if some substring of string a is equal to string b. |

```cypher
MATCH (c:Country)
WHERE c.name STARTS WITH 'G' AND NOT c.name CONTAINS 't'
RETURN c.name;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+---------+
| c.name  |
+---------+
| Germany |
+---------+
```

## 3. Regular expressions

Inside `WHERE` clause, you can use regular expressions for text filtering. To
use a regular expression, you need to use the `=~` operator.

For example, finding all `Person` nodes which have a name ending with `a`:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Person) WHERE n.name =~ ".*a$" RETURN n;
```

Output:

```nocopy
+--------------------------+
| n                        |
+--------------------------+
| (:Person {name: "Anna"}) |
+--------------------------+
```

The regular expression syntax is based on the modified ECMAScript regular
expression grammar. The ECMAScript grammar can be found
[here](http://ecma-international.org/ecma-262/5.1/#sec-15.10), while the
modifications are described in [this
document](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/regex/ecmascript).

## Dataset queries

We encourage you to try out the examples by yourself.
You can get our dataset locally by executing the following query block.

```cypher
MATCH (n) DETACH DELETE n;

CREATE (c1:Country {name: 'Germany', language: 'German', continent: 'Europe', population: 83000000});
CREATE (c2:Country {name: 'France', language: 'French', continent: 'Europe', population: 67000000});
CREATE (c3:Country {name: 'United Kingdom', language: 'English', continent: 'Europe', population: 66000000});

MATCH (c1),(c2)
WHERE c1.name= 'Germany' AND c2.name = 'France'
CREATE (c2)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'John'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (c)
WHERE c.name= 'United Kingdom'
CREATE (c)<-[:WORKING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p:Person {name: 'Harry'})-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2013}]->(c);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2011}]->(p2);

MATCH (p1),(p2)
WHERE p1.name = 'John' AND p2.name = 'Harry'
CREATE (p1)<-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2012}]-(:Person {name: 'Anna'})-[:FRIENDS_WITH {date_of_start: 2014}]->(p2);

MATCH (p),(c1),(c2)
WHERE p.name = 'Anna' AND c1.name = 'United Kingdom' AND c2.name = 'Germany'
CREATE (c2)<-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]-(p)-[:LIVING_IN {date_of_start: 2014}]->(c1);

MATCH (n)-[r]->(m) RETURN n,r,m;
```
