pages/getting-started/cli.mdx, before:

---
title: Command line interface
description: Understand the intricacies of Memgraph's CLI operations with our documentation. We're all for heightened efficiency in graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Command line interface

The easiest way to execute Cypher queries against Memgraph is by using
Memgraph's command-line tool, **mgconsole**.

## Install mgconsole 

To install or start `mgconsole` to query a running Memgraph database instance,
use the following steps:    

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Windows', 'macOS', 'Linux']}>

<Tab>

If you installed Memgraph using any Docker image and want to connect to it using
`mgconsole`,  run the `mgconsole` client available in the image, by running
following command in a new terminal: 

```terminal
docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
```

</Tab>
<Tab>

<Steps>

{<h3>Download mgconsole</h3>}

Visit the [Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download#individual) and download `mgconsole`.

{<h3>Start mgconsole</h3>}

From a terminal, start `mgconsole` with the command:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host HOST --port PORT
```

If Memgraph is running locally using the default configuration, start `mgconsole`
with:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687
```
</Steps>

</Tab>
<Tab>

<Steps>

{<h3>Download mgconsole</h3>}

Visit the [Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download#individual) and download `mgconsole`.

{<h3>Provide execute permission</h3>} 

From the terminal, provide the execution permission to the current user:

```terminal
chmod u+x ./mgconsole
```

{<h3>Start mgconsole</h3>}

Start mgconsole with the following command:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host HOST --port PORT
```

If Memgraph is running locally using the default configuration, start
mgconsole with:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687
```

</Steps>

</Tab>
<Tab>

{<h3>Build from source</h3>}

<Steps>

Follow the instructions on how to [build and
install](https://github.com/memgraph/mgconsole#building-and-installing)
mgconsole from source.

{<h3>Start mgconsole</h3>}

Start mgconsole with the following command:

```terminal
mgconsole --host HOST --port PORT
```

If Memgraph is running locally using the default configuration, start
mgconsole with:

```terminal
mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687
```

</Steps>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Execute Cypher queries

After the client has started, it should present a command prompt similar to:

```
mgconsole X.X
Connected to 'memgraph://127.0.0.1:7687'
Type :help for shell usage
Quit the shell by typing Ctrl-D(eof) or :quit
memgraph>
```

At this point, it is possible to execute Cypher queries against a running
Memgraph database instance. 

<Callout>

You can use the `TAB` key to autocomplete commands in `mgconsole`.

</Callout>

If you are new to Cypher, check out [how to query the database](/querying). 

### Query execution time

Upon successful execution of a query, Memgraph will return the execution time. 

To get a breakdown of the execution time, set the `-verbose_execution_info` flag
to `true`.

It will extend the information about the execution time with the following data:

```bash
Query COST estimate: 3066
Query PARSING time: 0.000175982 sec
Query PLAN EXECUTION time: 0.0154524 sec
Query PLANNING time: 8.054e-05 sec
```

The values show:

- COST estimate - Internal planner estimation on the cost of the query. When comparing two query executions, an order of magnitude larger COST estimates might indicate the query's longer execution time. 
- PARSING time - Time spent checking if the query is valid and normalizing it for cache.
- PLAN EXECUTION time - Time executing the plan. 
- PLANNING time - Time it takes the query planner to create the optimal plan to execute the query.

## Configure mgconsole

Below are configurational flags you can use with mgconsole:

### Main

| Flag                     | Description                                                                                                             | Type    | Default |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|
| -csv_delimiter            | Character used to separate fields.                                                                                      | string  | ","     |
| -csv_doublequote          | Controls how instances of the quotechar(") appearing inside a field should themselves be quoted. When `true`, the character is doubled. When `false`, the escapechar is used as a prefix to the quotechar. If `csv_doublequote` is `false`, `csv_escapechar` must be set. | bool    | true    |
| -csv_escapechar           | Character used to escape the quote character (") if `csv_doublequote` is `false`.                                      | string  | ""      |
| -fit_to_screen            | Fit output width to screen width.                                                                                       | bool    | false   |
| -history                  | Use the specified directory to save history.                                                                         | string  | "~/.memgraph" |
| -host                     | Server address. It can be a DNS resolvable hostname.                                                                     | string  | "127.0.0.1" |
| -no_history               | Do not save history.                                                                                                    | bool    | false   |
| -output_format            | Query output format. Can be `csv` or `tabular`. If the output format is not tabular `fit_to_screen` flag is ignored.       | string  | "tabular" |
| -password                 | Database password.                                                                                               | string  | ""      |
| -port                     | Server port.                                                                                                             | int32   | 7687    |
| -term_colors              | Use terminal colors syntax highlighting.                                                                                | bool    | false   |
| -use_ssl                  | Use SSL when connecting to the server.                                                                                  | bool    | false   |
| -username                 | Database username.                                                                                               | string  | ""      |
| -verbose_execution_info   | Output the additional information about query such as query cost, parsing, planning and execution times.               | bool    | false   |

### Flags

| Flag                     | Description                                                                                                             | Type    | Default |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|
| -flagfile                 | Load flags from a file.                                                                                                 | string  | ""      |
| -fromenv                  | Set flags from the environment [example: 'export FLAGS_flag1=value'].                                                   | string  | ""      |
| -tryfromenv               | Set flags from the environment if present.                                                                               | string  | ""      |
| -undefok                  | Comma-separated list of flag names. These flags can be specified on the command line even if the program does not define a flag with that name.  IMPORTANT: Flags from the list that have arguments MUST use the flag=value format. | string  | ""      |
| -tab_completion_columns   | The number of columns used in output for tab completion.                                                                  | int32   | 80      |
| -tab_completion_word      | If non-empty, `HandleCommandLineCompletions()` will hijack the process and attempt to do bash-style command line flag completion on this value.                                                                                                         | string  | ""      |

### Help

| Flag                     | Description                                                                                                             | Type    | Default |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|
| -help                     | Show help on all flags [tip: all flags can have two dashes].                                                               | bool    | false   |
| -helpfull                 | Show help on all flags -- same as -help.                                                                                  | bool    | false   |
| -helpmatch                | Show help on modules, names of which contain the specified substring.                                                           | string  | ""      |
| -helpon                   | Show help on the modules named by this flag value.                                                                        | string  | ""      |
| -helppackage              | Show help on all modules in the main package.                                                                             | bool    | false   |
| -helpshort               | Show help on the main module for this program only.                        | bool  | false   |
| -helpxml                 | Produce an .xml version of help.                                            | bool  | false   |
| -version                 | Show version and build info then exit.                                      | bool  | false   |

<Callout type="warning">

When working with Memgraph Platform, you should pass configuration flags inside
of environment variables.

For example, you should start Memgraph Platform with `docker run -e
MGCONSOLE="-output_format="csv"" memgraph/memgraph-platform`.

</Callout>

## Non-interactive mode

To get the query result in bash, use the following command: 
```bash
mgconsole < <(echo "MATCH (n:Person) RETURN n;")
```
or
```bash
echo "MATCH (n:Person) RETURN n;" | mgconsole
```

To save the query results in a file, use the following command:
```bash
mgconsole < <(echo "MATCH (n:Person) RETURN n;") > results.txt
```

Commit message:

add cypherl output format docs

pages/getting-started/cli.mdx, after:

---
title: Command line interface
description: Understand the intricacies of Memgraph's CLI operations with our documentation. We're all for heightened efficiency in graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Command line interface

The easiest way to execute Cypher queries against Memgraph is by using
Memgraph's command-line tool, **mgconsole**.

## Install mgconsole 

To install or start `mgconsole` to query a running Memgraph database instance,
use the following steps:    

<Tabs items={['Docker 🐳', 'Windows', 'macOS', 'Linux']}>

<Tab>

If you installed Memgraph using any Docker image and want to connect to it using
`mgconsole`,  run the `mgconsole` client available in the image, by running
following command in a new terminal: 

```terminal
docker exec -it memgraph mgconsole
```

</Tab>
<Tab>

<Steps>

{<h3>Download mgconsole</h3>}

Visit the [Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download#individual) and download `mgconsole`.

{<h3>Start mgconsole</h3>}

From a terminal, start `mgconsole` with the command:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host HOST --port PORT
```

If Memgraph is running locally using the default configuration, start `mgconsole`
with:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687
```
</Steps>

</Tab>
<Tab>

<Steps>

{<h3>Download mgconsole</h3>}

Visit the [Download Hub](https://memgraph.com/download#individual) and download `mgconsole`.

{<h3>Provide execute permission</h3>} 

From the terminal, provide the execution permission to the current user:

```terminal
chmod u+x ./mgconsole
```

{<h3>Start mgconsole</h3>}

Start mgconsole with the following command:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host HOST --port PORT
```

If Memgraph is running locally using the default configuration, start
mgconsole with:

```terminal
./mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687
```

</Steps>

</Tab>
<Tab>

{<h3>Build from source</h3>}

<Steps>

Follow the instructions on how to [build and
install](https://github.com/memgraph/mgconsole#building-and-installing)
mgconsole from source.

{<h3>Start mgconsole</h3>}

Start mgconsole with the following command:

```terminal
mgconsole --host HOST --port PORT
```

If Memgraph is running locally using the default configuration, start
mgconsole with:

```terminal
mgconsole --host 127.0.0.1 --port 7687
```

</Steps>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Execute Cypher queries

After the client has started, it should present a command prompt similar to:

```
mgconsole X.X
Connected to 'memgraph://127.0.0.1:7687'
Type :help for shell usage
Quit the shell by typing Ctrl-D(eof) or :quit
memgraph>
```

At this point, it is possible to execute Cypher queries against a running
Memgraph database instance. 

<Callout>

You can use the `TAB` key to autocomplete commands in `mgconsole`.

</Callout>

If you are new to Cypher, check out [how to query the database](/querying). 

### Query execution time

Upon successful execution of a query, Memgraph will return the execution time. 

To get a breakdown of the execution time, set the `-verbose_execution_info` flag
to `true`.

It will extend the information about the execution time with the following data:

```bash
Query COST estimate: 3066
Query PARSING time: 0.000175982 sec
Query PLAN EXECUTION time: 0.0154524 sec
Query PLANNING time: 8.054e-05 sec
```

The values show:

- COST estimate - Internal planner estimation on the cost of the query. When comparing two query executions, an order of magnitude larger COST estimates might indicate the query's longer execution time. 
- PARSING time - Time spent checking if the query is valid and normalizing it for cache.
- PLAN EXECUTION time - Time executing the plan. 
- PLANNING time - Time it takes the query planner to create the optimal plan to execute the query.

## Configure mgconsole

Below are configurational flags you can use with mgconsole:

### Main

| Flag                     | Description                                                                                                             | Type    | Default |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|
| -csv_delimiter            | Character used to separate fields.                                                                                      | string  | ","     |
| -csv_doublequote          | Controls how instances of the quotechar(") appearing inside a field should themselves be quoted. When `true`, the character is doubled. When `false`, the escapechar is used as a prefix to the quotechar. If `csv_doublequote` is `false`, `csv_escapechar` must be set. | bool    | true    |
| -csv_escapechar           | Character used to escape the quote character (") if `csv_doublequote` is `false`.                                      | string  | ""      |
| -fit_to_screen            | Fit output width to screen width.                                                                                       | bool    | false   |
| -history                  | Use the specified directory to save history.                                                                         | string  | "~/.memgraph" |
| -host                     | Server address. It can be a DNS resolvable hostname.                                                                     | string  | "127.0.0.1" |
| -no_history               | Do not save history.                                                                                                    | bool    | false   |
| -output_format            | Query output format. Can be `csv`, `tabular` or `cypherl`. If the output format is not tabular `fit_to_screen` flag is ignored. `cypherl` can currently only be used with the DUMP DATABASE query.       | string  | "tabular" |
| -password                 | Database password.                                                                                               | string  | ""      |
| -port                     | Server port.                                                                                                             | int32   | 7687    |
| -term_colors              | Use terminal colors syntax highlighting.                                                                                | bool    | false   |
| -use_ssl                  | Use SSL when connecting to the server.                                                                                  | bool    | false   |
| -username                 | Database username.                                                                                               | string  | ""      |
| -verbose_execution_info   | Output the additional information about query such as query cost, parsing, planning and execution times.               | bool    | false   |

### Flags

| Flag                     | Description                                                                                                             | Type    | Default |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|
| -flagfile                 | Load flags from a file.                                                                                                 | string  | ""      |
| -fromenv                  | Set flags from the environment [example: 'export FLAGS_flag1=value'].                                                   | string  | ""      |
| -tryfromenv               | Set flags from the environment if present.                                                                               | string  | ""      |
| -undefok                  | Comma-separated list of flag names. These flags can be specified on the command line even if the program does not define a flag with that name.  IMPORTANT: Flags from the list that have arguments MUST use the flag=value format. | string  | ""      |
| -tab_completion_columns   | The number of columns used in output for tab completion.                                                                  | int32   | 80      |
| -tab_completion_word      | If non-empty, `HandleCommandLineCompletions()` will hijack the process and attempt to do bash-style command line flag completion on this value.                                                                                                         | string  | ""      |

### Help

| Flag                     | Description                                                                                                             | Type    | Default |
|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|
| -help                     | Show help on all flags [tip: all flags can have two dashes].                                                               | bool    | false   |
| -helpfull                 | Show help on all flags -- same as -help.                                                                                  | bool    | false   |
| -helpmatch                | Show help on modules, names of which contain the specified substring.                                                           | string  | ""      |
| -helpon                   | Show help on the modules named by this flag value.                                                                        | string  | ""      |
| -helppackage              | Show help on all modules in the main package.                                                                             | bool    | false   |
| -helpshort               | Show help on the main module for this program only.                        | bool  | false   |
| -helpxml                 | Produce an .xml version of help.                                            | bool  | false   |
| -version                 | Show version and build info then exit.                                      | bool  | false   |

<Callout type="warning">

When working with Memgraph Platform, you should pass configuration flags inside
of environment variables.

For example, you should start Memgraph Platform with `docker run -e
MGCONSOLE="-output_format="csv"" memgraph/memgraph-platform`.

</Callout>

## Non-interactive mode

To get the query result in bash, use the following command: 
```bash
mgconsole < <(echo "MATCH (n:Person) RETURN n;")
```
or
```bash
echo "MATCH (n:Person) RETURN n;" | mgconsole
```

To save the query results in a file, use the following command:
```bash
mgconsole < <(echo "MATCH (n:Person) RETURN n;") > results.txt
```
