pages/getting-started/first-steps-with-memgraph.mdx, before:

# First steps with Memgraph

In this tutorial, you will learn how to install Memgraph Platform, connect to it
using Memgraph Lab, run your first query and style your graph. You will see that
using Memgraph is not hard at all! 

This tutorial is also available as a video on Memgraph's YouTube channel:

<br />

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6qYsAMisqQg"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="autoplay; encrypted-media"
  allowFullScreen
></iframe>

Let's get started!

## Prerequisites 

Memgraph Platform can be installed only with **Docker**. Instructions on how to
install Docker can be found on the [official Docker
website](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).


## 1. Install Memgraph Platform

First, you need to download and install Memgraph Platform. All you need to do is
to open a terminal on your computer and run the following command:

```bash
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

Once the installation is done, you will see a message similar to this one:

```nocopy

Status: Downloaded newer image for memgraph/memgraph-platform:latest
Memgraph Lab is running at localhost:3000

mgconsole 1.1
Connected to 'memgraph://127.0.0.1:7687'
Type :help for shell usage
Quit the shell by typing Ctrl-D(eof) or :quit
memgraph>

```

That means that you have installed Memgraph Platform and that you have Memgraph
up and running. Kudos!

## 2. Connect to Memgraph Lab

Since you installed and started the Memgraph Platform, then the Memgraph Lab is
already running, so open your web browser and go to
[`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000). When the Memgraph Lab loads, click
**Connect now**.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/connect-to-memgraph-lab.png)

That's it! You can see the Memgraph Lab Dashboard, so you are ready to head over
to the next step.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-dashboard.png)

## 3. Import dataset

Since this is a fresh install, there are no nodes and relationships in your
database. We have prepared more than 20 datasets that you can use for testing
and learning. You will now import one of those datasets. In the sidebar click
**Datasets**. Next, go to **Capital cities and borders** and click **Load Dataset**.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-datasets.png)

You will see the warning that a new dataset will overwrite current data in the
database. That is not a problem for you since you don't have any data in your
database, but in the future be careful when importing data. Go ahead and click
**Confirm**. Once the import is done, click the **X** to close the dialog. 

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-dataset-import.png)

## 4. Run query

Now that the data is imported it is time to run your first Cypher query. You
will write a query that that displays all of the cities and all of the
connections. 

Click the **Query Execution** in the sidebar, and then copy-and-paste the
following code into the **Cypher Editor**.

```cypher

MATCH (n)-[r]-(m)
RETURN n, r, m;

```

Click **Run query** to run the above query and see the result in the **Graph
results** tab.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-first-cypher-query.png)

Here is another query for you. Imagine that you are in Madrid and you want to
visit other capital cities that are one or two hops away from Madrid. How can
you figure out which cities are your possible destinations? You will use Cypher
query language to find that out.

Click the **Query Execution** in the sidebar, and then copy-and-paste the
following code into the **Cypher Editor**.

```cypher

MATCH p = (madrid:City { name: "Madrid" })-[e *BFS ..2]-(:City)
RETURN p;

```

This query will show all of the capital cities on the map that are up to two
hops away from Madrid. You don't have to worry about exact semantics of this
query for now, but if you want to find out more, check out the [learning
materials](/querying) for Cypher. Click **Run query** to run the above
query and see the result in the **Graph results** tab.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-cypher-editor.png)

The result that you can see shows all of the capital cities that are two hops
away from Madrid.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-graph-results.png)

## 5. Style your graph

When your results are shown on the map, you can move around. Go ahead and
zoom in and change the map style to **Detailed**. 

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-map-style.png)

You will now use **Graph Style Editor** to change how nodes and relationships
are shown on the map. We have included a flag for each capital city as a node
property for the country it belongs to. You will now add one line of code to
change the style of the graph.

Find the part of the code that looks like this:

```nocopy
@NodeStyle HasLabel(node, "City") {
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
}
```
and add the line

```
  image-url: Property(node, "flag")
```

so that the above block looks like this:

```nocopy
@NodeStyle HasLabel(node, "City") {
  image-url: Property(node, "flag")
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
}
```

Click **Apply**, and your result should look like this:

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-style-editor.png)

That looks great, but let's make the names of the cities and nodes a little bit
bigger.

In the Graph Style Editor, locate the following code:

```nocopy
@NodeStyle {
  size: 6
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
  border-width: 1.8
  border-color: #1d1d1d
  font-size: 7
}
```
and replace it with:

```
@NodeStyle {
  size: 10
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
  border-width: 1.8
  border-color: #1d1d1d
  font-size: 12
}
```

You have increased the node size to 10, and the font size to 12. Now you will update the styling for the relationships. To make them thicker and change their color to red on hover, replace the following code in the Graph Style Editor:

```nocopy
@EdgeStyle {
  color: #999999
  color-hover: #1d1d1d
  color-selected: #1d1d1d
  width: 0.9
  width-hover: 2.7
  width-selected: 2.7
  font-size: 7
  label: Type(edge)
}
```

with

```
@EdgeStyle {
  color: #999999
  color-hover: #ff0000
  color-selected: #1d1d1d
  width: 2
  width-hover: 2.7
  width-selected: 2.7
  font-size: 7
  label: Type(edge)
}
```

In case you need it, here is the complete Graph Style Code:

```
@NodeStyle {
  size: 10
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
  border-width: 1.8
  border-color: #1d1d1d
  font-size: 12
}

@NodeStyle HasLabel(node, "City") {
  image-url: Property(node, "flag")
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
}

@NodeStyle Greater(Size(Labels(node)), 0) {
  label: Format(":{}", Join(Labels(node), " :"))
}

@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "name") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "name"))
}

@EdgeStyle {
  color: #999999
  color-hover: #ff0000
  color-selected: #1d1d1d
  width: 2
  width-hover: 2.7
  width-selected: 2.7
  font-size: 7
  label: Type(edge)
}
```  

Below you can see how the graph looks like in the end. We hope that you have
enjoyed this short tutorial. Now that you have seen Memgraph in action, we
encourage you to keep exploring Memgraph features. A wonderful world of graphs
awaits you!

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-map-style-final.png)

## Where to next?

In this tutorial, you've learned how to install Memgraph Platform, use Memgraph Lab to
import a dataset, run queries and style your graph. Not bad for a start, right?

You don't want to bother with installation? Done! [Memgraph
Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud) at your service -
register and run an instance in few easy steps.

We have promised along the way some more resources, so here they are:

* [Cypher manual](/querying)
* [Guide to Style Script script](/data-visualization/graph-style-script)
* [How to work with Docker](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker)

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/getting-started/first-steps-with-memgraph.mdx, after:

---
title: First steps with Memgraph
description: Starting with Memgraph? Peruse our detailed guide outlining the first steps towards mastering this graph computing tool.
---

# First steps with Memgraph

In this tutorial, you will learn how to install Memgraph Platform, connect to it
using Memgraph Lab, run your first query and style your graph. You will see that
using Memgraph is not hard at all! 

This tutorial is also available as a video on Memgraph's YouTube channel:

<br />

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6qYsAMisqQg"
  frameBorder="0"
  allow="autoplay; encrypted-media"
  allowFullScreen
></iframe>

Let's get started!

## Prerequisites 

Memgraph Platform can be installed only with **Docker**. Instructions on how to
install Docker can be found on the [official Docker
website](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).


## 1. Install Memgraph Platform

First, you need to download and install Memgraph Platform. All you need to do is
to open a terminal on your computer and run the following command:

```bash
docker run -p 7687:7687 -p 7444:7444 -p 3000:3000 memgraph/memgraph-platform
```

Once the installation is done, you will see a message similar to this one:

```nocopy

Status: Downloaded newer image for memgraph/memgraph-platform:latest
Memgraph Lab is running at localhost:3000

mgconsole 1.1
Connected to 'memgraph://127.0.0.1:7687'
Type :help for shell usage
Quit the shell by typing Ctrl-D(eof) or :quit
memgraph>

```

That means that you have installed Memgraph Platform and that you have Memgraph
up and running. Kudos!

## 2. Connect to Memgraph Lab

Since you installed and started the Memgraph Platform, then the Memgraph Lab is
already running, so open your web browser and go to
[`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000). When the Memgraph Lab loads, click
**Connect now**.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/connect-to-memgraph-lab.png)

That's it! You can see the Memgraph Lab Dashboard, so you are ready to head over
to the next step.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-dashboard.png)

## 3. Import dataset

Since this is a fresh install, there are no nodes and relationships in your
database. We have prepared more than 20 datasets that you can use for testing
and learning. You will now import one of those datasets. In the sidebar click
**Datasets**. Next, go to **Capital cities and borders** and click **Load Dataset**.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-datasets.png)

You will see the warning that a new dataset will overwrite current data in the
database. That is not a problem for you since you don't have any data in your
database, but in the future be careful when importing data. Go ahead and click
**Confirm**. Once the import is done, click the **X** to close the dialog. 

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-dataset-import.png)

## 4. Run query

Now that the data is imported it is time to run your first Cypher query. You
will write a query that that displays all of the cities and all of the
connections. 

Click the **Query Execution** in the sidebar, and then copy-and-paste the
following code into the **Cypher Editor**.

```cypher

MATCH (n)-[r]-(m)
RETURN n, r, m;

```

Click **Run query** to run the above query and see the result in the **Graph
results** tab.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-first-cypher-query.png)

Here is another query for you. Imagine that you are in Madrid and you want to
visit other capital cities that are one or two hops away from Madrid. How can
you figure out which cities are your possible destinations? You will use Cypher
query language to find that out.

Click the **Query Execution** in the sidebar, and then copy-and-paste the
following code into the **Cypher Editor**.

```cypher

MATCH p = (madrid:City { name: "Madrid" })-[e *BFS ..2]-(:City)
RETURN p;

```

This query will show all of the capital cities on the map that are up to two
hops away from Madrid. You don't have to worry about exact semantics of this
query for now, but if you want to find out more, check out the [learning
materials](/querying) for Cypher. Click **Run query** to run the above
query and see the result in the **Graph results** tab.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-cypher-editor.png)

The result that you can see shows all of the capital cities that are two hops
away from Madrid.

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-graph-results.png)

## 5. Style your graph

When your results are shown on the map, you can move around. Go ahead and
zoom in and change the map style to **Detailed**. 

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-map-style.png)

You will now use **Graph Style Editor** to change how nodes and relationships
are shown on the map. We have included a flag for each capital city as a node
property for the country it belongs to. You will now add one line of code to
change the style of the graph.

Find the part of the code that looks like this:

```nocopy
@NodeStyle HasLabel(node, "City") {
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
}
```
and add the line

```
  image-url: Property(node, "flag")
```

so that the above block looks like this:

```nocopy
@NodeStyle HasLabel(node, "City") {
  image-url: Property(node, "flag")
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
}
```

Click **Apply**, and your result should look like this:

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-style-editor.png)

That looks great, but let's make the names of the cities and nodes a little bit
bigger.

In the Graph Style Editor, locate the following code:

```nocopy
@NodeStyle {
  size: 6
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
  border-width: 1.8
  border-color: #1d1d1d
  font-size: 7
}
```
and replace it with:

```
@NodeStyle {
  size: 10
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
  border-width: 1.8
  border-color: #1d1d1d
  font-size: 12
}
```

You have increased the node size to 10, and the font size to 12. Now you will update the styling for the relationships. To make them thicker and change their color to red on hover, replace the following code in the Graph Style Editor:

```nocopy
@EdgeStyle {
  color: #999999
  color-hover: #1d1d1d
  color-selected: #1d1d1d
  width: 0.9
  width-hover: 2.7
  width-selected: 2.7
  font-size: 7
  label: Type(edge)
}
```

with

```
@EdgeStyle {
  color: #999999
  color-hover: #ff0000
  color-selected: #1d1d1d
  width: 2
  width-hover: 2.7
  width-selected: 2.7
  font-size: 7
  label: Type(edge)
}
```

In case you need it, here is the complete Graph Style Code:

```
@NodeStyle {
  size: 10
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
  border-width: 1.8
  border-color: #1d1d1d
  font-size: 12
}

@NodeStyle HasLabel(node, "City") {
  image-url: Property(node, "flag")
  color: #DD2222
  color-hover: Lighter(#DD2222)
  color-selected: Lighter(#DD2222)
}

@NodeStyle Greater(Size(Labels(node)), 0) {
  label: Format(":{}", Join(Labels(node), " :"))
}

@NodeStyle HasProperty(node, "name") {
  label: AsText(Property(node, "name"))
}

@EdgeStyle {
  color: #999999
  color-hover: #ff0000
  color-selected: #1d1d1d
  width: 2
  width-hover: 2.7
  width-selected: 2.7
  font-size: 7
  label: Type(edge)
}
```  

Below you can see how the graph looks like in the end. We hope that you have
enjoyed this short tutorial. Now that you have seen Memgraph in action, we
encourage you to keep exploring Memgraph features. A wonderful world of graphs
awaits you!

![](/pages/getting-started/first-steps/memgraph-lab-map-style-final.png)

## Where to next?

In this tutorial, you've learned how to install Memgraph Platform, use Memgraph Lab to
import a dataset, run queries and style your graph. Not bad for a start, right?

You don't want to bother with installation? Done! [Memgraph
Cloud](/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud) at your service -
register and run an instance in few easy steps.

We have promised along the way some more resources, so here they are:

* [Cypher manual](/querying)
* [Guide to Style Script script](/data-visualization/graph-style-script)
* [How to work with Docker](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker)
