pages/getting-started/install-memgraph.mdx, before:

---
title: Install Memgraph
description: Get your Memgraph Platform up and running with our comprehensive installation guide, ensuring a hassle-free setup and quick initiation.
---

import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'

# Install Memgraph

If you're new to Memgraph or you're in a developing stage, we recommend using
the Memgraph Platform. Besides the database, it also includes all the tools you
might need to analyze your data, such as command-line interface
[mgconsole](/getting-started/cli), web interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization) and a complete set of algorithms within a
[MAGE](/advanced-algorithms) library.

Ensure [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) is running in the
background. Depending on your operating system, execute the appropriate command
in the console:

**For Linux and macOS:**

<CodeSnippet code="curl https://install.memgraph.com | sh" page="install-memgraph" os="linux/macOS"/>

**For Windows:**

<CodeSnippet code="iwr https://windows.memgraph.com | iex" page="install-memgraph" os="windows"/>

Once you're ready to go to production you can choose to use the `memgraph-mage`
Docker image that includes the database and the graph library, or run the
database only, using the `memgraph` image.

Other installation options are also available. 

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Docker"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker"
  />
  <Card
    title="Debian"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/debian"
  />
  <Card
    title="Ubuntu"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu"
  />
  <Card
    title="Memgraph Cloud"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud"
  />
  <Card
    title="Docker Compose"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose"
  />

  <Card
    title="Kubernetes"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes"
  />
  <Card
    title="RPM Package"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/rpm-package"
  />
  <Card
    title="WSL"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/wsl"
  />
</Cards>

You don't want to bother with installation? Done!

Register and run a [Memgraph Cloud](https://memgraph.com/cloud) instance with a
2-week trial period.

## System requirements

Below are minimum and recommended system requirements for installing Memgraph.

|         | Minimum  | Recommended                    |
| ------- | -------- | ------------------------------ |
| CPU     | Server or desktop processor: <br/> Intel Xeon <br/> AMD Opteron/Epyc <br/> ARM machines or Apple M1 <br/> Amazon Graviton | Server processor: <br/> Intel Xeon <br/> AMD Opteron/Epyc <br/> ARM machines or Apple M1 <br/> Amazon Graviton |
| RAM     | 1 GB     | ≥ 16 GB ECC                    |
| Disk    | 1 GB     | equally as RAM                 |
| Cores   | 1 vCPU   | ≥ 8 vCPUs (≥ 4 physical cores) |
| Network | 100 Mbps | ≥ 1 Gbps                       |

The disk is used for storing database [durability
files](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup) - snapshots and write-ahead
logs.

Check out how the [storage memory](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage) is used,
and calculate memory requirements based on your data.

Commit message:

Revamp getting started (#705)
* Revamp getting started

* Change the link to installation options

* update

* update v2

* Add redirect frome deleted page First steps with Memgraph to Getting started

* Update redirects

* Update broken link

* Update pages/getting-started/install-memgraph.mdx

Co-authored-by: Kruno Golubic <46486712+kgolubic@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: kgolubic <kgolubic@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Kruno Golubic <46486712+kgolubic@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/getting-started/install-memgraph.mdx, after:

---
title: Install Memgraph
description: Get your Memgraph Platform up and running with our comprehensive installation guide, ensuring a hassle-free setup and quick initiation.
---

import { Card, Cards } from 'nextra/components'
import CodeSnippet from '/components/code-snippet/CodeSnippet'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'


# Install Memgraph

Memgraph can be installed on various systems, but the most common way of running
it is using Docker. If you're new to Memgraph we recommend running [Memgraph
Platform](/getting-started#install-memgraph-platform), a multi-container application. It includes the database

and all the tools you might need to analyze your data, such as command-line
interface [mgconsole](/getting-started/cli), web interface [Memgraph
Lab](/data-visualization) and a complete set of algorithms within a
[MAGE](/advanced-algorithms) library.

<Callout type="info">
Memgraph Platform is no longer a single-container application. Before (Memgraph
< 2.14), Memgraph Platform was a separate Docker image released on Docker Hub.
This image is no longer supported, because having database service and client
service in the same container is not a good practice. Still, with Memgraph Lab
being released on Docker Hub, it is possible to run Memgraph MAGE and Lab as two
separate services, and in that way, running Memgraph Platform as a
multi-container application with [Docker
Compose](/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose).
</Callout>

For a quick start, please follow the [Getting started guide](/getting-started). 

## Installation options

The quick start will accelerate your first steps with Memgraph. If you plan on
using Memgraph for your project, it's best to familiarize yourself with the
installation options and pick the preferred one.

<Cards>
  <Card
    title="Docker"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker"
  />
  <Card
    title="Debian"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/debian"
  />
  <Card
    title="Ubuntu"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/ubuntu"
  />
  <Card
    title="Memgraph Cloud"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/memgraph-cloud"
  />
  <Card
    title="Docker Compose"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/docker-compose"
  />

  <Card
    title="Kubernetes"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/kubernetes"
  />
  <Card
    title="RPM Package"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/rpm-package"
  />
  <Card
    title="WSL"
    href="/getting-started/install-memgraph/wsl"
  />
</Cards>

You don't want to bother with installation? Done!

Register and run a [Memgraph Cloud](https://memgraph.com/cloud) instance with a
2-week trial period.

## System requirements

Below are minimum and recommended system requirements for installing Memgraph.

|         | Minimum  | Recommended                    |
| ------- | -------- | ------------------------------ |
| CPU     | Server or desktop processor: <br/> Intel Xeon <br/> AMD Opteron/Epyc <br/> ARM machines or Apple M1 <br/> Amazon Graviton | Server processor: <br/> Intel Xeon <br/> AMD Opteron/Epyc <br/> ARM machines or Apple M1 <br/> Amazon Graviton |
| RAM     | 1 GB     | ≥ 16 GB ECC                    |
| Disk    | 1 GB     | equally as RAM                 |
| Cores   | 1 vCPU   | ≥ 8 vCPUs (≥ 4 physical cores) |
| Network | 100 Mbps | ≥ 1 Gbps                       |

The disk is used for storing database [durability
files](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup) - snapshots and write-ahead
logs.

Check out how the [storage memory](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage) is used,
and calculate memory requirements based on your data.
