pages/fundamentals/constraints.md, before:

# Enforce constraints

## Existence constraint

Existence constraint enforces that each vertex that has a specific `label`
also must have the specified `property`. Only one label and property can be
supplied at a time.  This constraint can be enforced using the following
language construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT EXISTS (n.property);
```

For example, suppose you are keeping track of basic employee info in your
database. Obviously, each employee should have a first name and last name. You
can enforce this by issuing the following queries:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.first_name);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.last_name);
```

You can confirm that your constraint was successfully created by issuing the
following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```

You should get a result similar to this:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| exists          | Employee        | first_name      |
| exists          | Employee        | last_name       |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will
yield an error.

Constraints can also be dropped using the `DROP` keyword. For example,
dropping the previously created constraints can be done by the following
query:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.first_name);
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.last_name);
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` yields an empty set.

## Uniqueness constraint

Uniqueness constraint enforces that each `label, property_set` pair is unique.
Adding uniqueness constraint does not create a label-property index, it needs to
be added manually. 

The uniqueness constraint can be enforced using the following language
construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property1, n.property2, ..., IS UNIQUE;
```

For example, suppose you are keeping track of basic employee info in your
database. Obviously, each employee should have a unique e-mail address. You can
enforce this by issuing the following query:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
```

You can confirm that your constraint was successfully created by issuing the
following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```

You should get a result similar to this:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| unique          | Employee        | email           |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will yield
an error `Unable to commit due to unique constraint violation on
:Employee(email)`.

Naturally, you can also specify multiple properties when creating uniqueness
constraints. For example, we might want to enforce that all employees have a
unique `(name, surname)` pair (obviously, this would be a bad decision in real
life). This can be achieved by the following query:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.surname IS UNIQUE;
```

At this point, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` yields the following result:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| unique          | Employee        | email           |
| unique          | Employee        | name, surname   |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

Constraints can also be dropped using the `DROP` keyword. For example,
dropping the previously created constraints can be done by the following
query:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.surname IS UNIQUE;
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` yields an empty set.

Commit message:

[main < add-metadata-to-doc] Add title metadata to the pages (#117)
* Add title metadata to the pages

* Add metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

* Update metadata

pages/fundamentals/constraints.md, after:

---
title: Enforce constraints
description: Understand the constraints in Memgraph's operations. Our guide breaks it down, streamlining your approach to graph use cases.
---

# Enforce constraints

## Existence constraint

Existence constraint enforces that each vertex that has a specific `label`
also must have the specified `property`. Only one label and property can be
supplied at a time.  This constraint can be enforced using the following
language construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT EXISTS (n.property);
```

For example, suppose you are keeping track of basic employee info in your
database. Obviously, each employee should have a first name and last name. You
can enforce this by issuing the following queries:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.first_name);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.last_name);
```

You can confirm that your constraint was successfully created by issuing the
following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```

You should get a result similar to this:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| exists          | Employee        | first_name      |
| exists          | Employee        | last_name       |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will
yield an error.

Constraints can also be dropped using the `DROP` keyword. For example,
dropping the previously created constraints can be done by the following
query:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.first_name);
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.last_name);
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` yields an empty set.

## Uniqueness constraint

Uniqueness constraint enforces that each `label, property_set` pair is unique.
Adding uniqueness constraint does not create a label-property index, it needs to
be added manually. 

The uniqueness constraint can be enforced using the following language
construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property1, n.property2, ..., IS UNIQUE;
```

For example, suppose you are keeping track of basic employee info in your
database. Obviously, each employee should have a unique e-mail address. You can
enforce this by issuing the following query:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
```

You can confirm that your constraint was successfully created by issuing the
following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```

You should get a result similar to this:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| unique          | Employee        | email           |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will yield
an error `Unable to commit due to unique constraint violation on
:Employee(email)`.

Naturally, you can also specify multiple properties when creating uniqueness
constraints. For example, we might want to enforce that all employees have a
unique `(name, surname)` pair (obviously, this would be a bad decision in real
life). This can be achieved by the following query:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.surname IS UNIQUE;
```

At this point, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` yields the following result:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| unique          | Employee        | email           |
| unique          | Employee        | name, surname   |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

Constraints can also be dropped using the `DROP` keyword. For example,
dropping the previously created constraints can be done by the following
query:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.surname IS UNIQUE;
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` yields an empty set.
