pages/fundamentals/constraints.mdx, before:

---
title: Constraints
description: Understand the constraints in Memgraph's operations. Our guide breaks it down, streamlining your approach to graph use cases.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Constraints

In modern database systems, ensuring data integrity and reducing redundancy is
paramount. Constraints play a pivotal role, ensuring that only valid data is
entered into the database upon commit. The following chapters delve deep into two
fundamental types of constraints, existence and uniqueness.

The existence constraint ensures the presence of specific data within the
database, while the uniqueness constraint ensures that specific label-property
pairs remain unique across entries.

## Existence constraint

Existence constraint enforces that each node with a specific label must also
have a certain property. Only one label and property can be supplied at a time.

This constraint can be enforced using the following language construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT EXISTS (n.property);
```

To confirm that the constraint was successfully created use the following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```


To be compatible with former Neo4j users, users can also use the following command:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINTS;
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will
yield an error.

Constraints are dropped using the `DROP` clause:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT EXISTS (n.property);
```

### Example

If the database is used to hold basic employee information, each
employee should have a first name and a last name. You can enforce this by
running the following queries:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.first_name);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.last_name);
```

The `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` should return the following result:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| exists          | Employee        | first_name      |
| exists          | Employee        | last_name       |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

To drop the created constraints use the following queries:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.first_name);
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.last_name);
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` returns an empty set.

## Uniqueness constraint

The uniqueness constraint enforces that each label-property pair is unique. You can
also, specify multiple properties when creating uniqueness constraints. 

<Callout type="info">

Adding a uniqueness constraint does not create a [label-property
index](/fundamentals/indexes), it needs to be added manually. 

</Callout>

The uniqueness constraint can be enforced using the following language
construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property1, n.property2, ..., IS UNIQUE;
```

To confirm that the constraint was successfully created use the following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will yield
an error `Unable to commit due to unique constraint violation on
:Label(property)`.

Constraints are dropped using the `DROP` clause:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property IS UNIQUE;
```

### Example

If the database is used to hold basic employee information, each employee should
have a unique id and email. You can enforce this by running the following query:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.id IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
```

The `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` should return the following result:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| unique          | Employee        | id              |
| unique          | Employee        | email           |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

To specify multiple properties when creating uniqueness
constraints, list them one after the other:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.address IS UNIQUE;
```

At this point, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` yields the following result:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| unique          | Employee        | id              |
| unique          | Employee        | email           |
| unique          | Employee        | name, address   |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

This means that two employees could have the same name **or** the same address,
but they can not have the same name **and** the same address. 

To drop the created constraints, use the following queries:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.id IS UNIQUE;
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.address IS UNIQUE;
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` returns an empty set.

## Data type constraint

The data type constraint enforces that each label-property pair is of a certain data type.

<Callout type="info">

Adding a data type constraint does not create a [label-property
index](/fundamentals/indexes), it needs to be added manually.

</Callout>

The data type constraint can be enforced using the following language
construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property IS TYPED DATA_TYPE;
```

The supported data types are:

| Data type           |
| ------------------- |
| `NULL`              |
| `STRING`            |
| `BOOLEAN`           |
| `INTEGER`           |
| `FLOAT`             |
| `LIST`              |
| `MAP`               |
| `DURATION`          |
| `DATE`              |
| `LOCALTIME`         |
| `LOCALDATETIME`     |
| `ZONEDDATETIME`     |
| `ENUM`              |
| `POINT`             |

To confirm that the constraint was successfully created use the following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will yield
an error `IS TYPED DATA_TYPE violation on Label(property)`.

Constraints are dropped using the `DROP` clause:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property IS TYPED DATA_TYPE;
```

You can only have one data type constraint on a given label-property pair.
Attempting to create a second data type constraint on a given label-property pair will yield an error
`Constraint IS TYPED DATA_TYPE on :Label(property) already exists`.
Attempting to drop a data type constraint which doesn't exist will yield an error
`Constraint IS TYPED DATA_TYPE on :Node(prop) doesn't exist`.

<Callout type="info">

Data type constraints are not yet supported in the [`schema.assert()`](/querying/schema#assert) procedure.

</Callout>


### Example

If the database is used to hold basic information about a person like their name and age
you can enforce the name to be a string and the age to be an integer by running the following queries:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT n.name IS TYPED STRING;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT n.age IS TYPED INTEGER;
```

Then `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` should return the following result:

```
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-------------+
| constraint type | label        | properties      |  data_type  |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-------------|
| data_type       | Person       | name            |   STRING    |
| data_type       | Person       | age             |   INTEGER   |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-------------|
```

Creating a person with
```cypher
CREATE (:Person {age:22});
```
and trying to violate the data type constraints by setting the age of a person to a string with:
```cypher
MATCH (n) SET n.age = 'age';
```
will yield the error `IS TYPED INTEGER violation on Person(age)`.

To drop the created constraints, use the following queries:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT n.name IS TYPED STRING;
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT n.age IS TYPED INTEGER;
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` returns an empty set.


## Schema-related procedures

You can also modify the constraints using the [`schema.assert()` procedure](/querying/schema#assert).

### Delete all constraints

To delete all constraints, use the [`schema.assert()`](/querying/schema#assert) procedure with the following parameters:
- `indices_map` = map of key-value pairs of all indexes in the database
- `unique_constraints` = `{}`
- `existence_constraints` = `{}`
- `drop_existing` = `true`

Here is an example of indexes and constraints set in the database:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT EXISTS (n.name);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.id IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.surname IS UNIQUE;
CREATE INDEX ON :Student(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :Student;
```

There are three uniqueness and one existence constraint. Additionally, there are
two indexes - one label and one label-property index. To delete all constraints, run:

```cypher
CALL schema.assert({Student: ["", "id"]}, {}, {}, true) 
YIELD action, key, keys, label, unique
RETURN action, key, keys, label, unique;
```

The above query removes all existing constraints because the empty
`unique_constraints` and `existence_constraints` maps indicate that no
constraints should be asserted as existing, while the `drop_existing` set to
`true` specifies that all existing constraints should be dropped.

Primarily, the [`assert()`](querying/schema#assert) procedure is used to define a schema, but it's also
useful if you need to [delete all node indexes](/fundamentals/indexes#delete-all-node-indexes) or [delete all node indexes and constraints](/querying/schema#delete-all-indexes-and-constraints).

## Recovery

Existence and unique [constraints](/fundamentals/constraints), and indexes can be
recovered in parallel. To enable this behavior, set the
[`storage-parallel-schema-recovery`
configuration](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage) flag to `true`.

Commit message:

add drop all indexes and constraints info on index and constraints pages

pages/fundamentals/constraints.mdx, after:

---
title: Constraints
description: Understand the constraints in Memgraph's operations. Our guide breaks it down, streamlining your approach to graph use cases.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Constraints

In modern database systems, ensuring data integrity and reducing redundancy is
paramount. Constraints play a pivotal role, ensuring that only valid data is
entered into the database upon commit. The following chapters delve deep into two
fundamental types of constraints, existence and uniqueness.

The existence constraint ensures the presence of specific data within the
database, while the uniqueness constraint ensures that specific label-property
pairs remain unique across entries.

## Existence constraint

Existence constraint enforces that each node with a specific label must also
have a certain property. Only one label and property can be supplied at a time.

This constraint can be enforced using the following language construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT EXISTS (n.property);
```

To confirm that the constraint was successfully created use the following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```


To be compatible with former Neo4j users, users can also use the following command:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINTS;
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will
yield an error.

Constraints are dropped using the `DROP` clause:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT EXISTS (n.property);
```

### Example

If the database is used to hold basic employee information, each
employee should have a first name and a last name. You can enforce this by
running the following queries:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.first_name);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.last_name);
```

The `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` should return the following result:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| exists          | Employee        | first_name      |
| exists          | Employee        | last_name       |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

To drop the created constraints use the following queries:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.first_name);
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT EXISTS (n.last_name);
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` returns an empty set.

## Uniqueness constraint

The uniqueness constraint enforces that each label-property pair is unique. You can
also, specify multiple properties when creating uniqueness constraints. 

<Callout type="info">

Adding a uniqueness constraint does not create a [label-property
index](/fundamentals/indexes), it needs to be added manually. 

</Callout>

The uniqueness constraint can be enforced using the following language
construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property1, n.property2, ..., IS UNIQUE;
```

To confirm that the constraint was successfully created use the following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will yield
an error `Unable to commit due to unique constraint violation on
:Label(property)`.

Constraints are dropped using the `DROP` clause:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property IS UNIQUE;
```

### Example

If the database is used to hold basic employee information, each employee should
have a unique id and email. You can enforce this by running the following query:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.id IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
```

The `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` should return the following result:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| unique          | Employee        | id              |
| unique          | Employee        | email           |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

To specify multiple properties when creating uniqueness
constraints, list them one after the other:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.address IS UNIQUE;
```

At this point, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` yields the following result:

```
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| constraint type | label           | properties      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| unique          | Employee        | id              |
| unique          | Employee        | email           |
| unique          | Employee        | name, address   |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
```

This means that two employees could have the same name **or** the same address,
but they can not have the same name **and** the same address. 

To drop the created constraints, use the following queries:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.id IS UNIQUE;
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.address IS UNIQUE;
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` returns an empty set.

## Data type constraint

The data type constraint enforces that each label-property pair is of a certain data type.

<Callout type="info">

Adding a data type constraint does not create a [label-property
index](/fundamentals/indexes), it needs to be added manually.

</Callout>

The data type constraint can be enforced using the following language
construct:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property IS TYPED DATA_TYPE;
```

The supported data types are:

| Data type           |
| ------------------- |
| `NULL`              |
| `STRING`            |
| `BOOLEAN`           |
| `INTEGER`           |
| `FLOAT`             |
| `LIST`              |
| `MAP`               |
| `DURATION`          |
| `DATE`              |
| `LOCALTIME`         |
| `LOCALDATETIME`     |
| `ZONEDDATETIME`     |
| `ENUM`              |
| `POINT`             |

To confirm that the constraint was successfully created use the following query:

```cypher
SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;
```

Trying to modify the database in a way that violates the constraint will yield
an error `IS TYPED DATA_TYPE violation on Label(property)`.

Constraints are dropped using the `DROP` clause:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:label) ASSERT n.property IS TYPED DATA_TYPE;
```

You can only have one data type constraint on a given label-property pair.
Attempting to create a second data type constraint on a given label-property pair will yield an error
`Constraint IS TYPED DATA_TYPE on :Label(property) already exists`.
Attempting to drop a data type constraint which doesn't exist will yield an error
`Constraint IS TYPED DATA_TYPE on :Node(prop) doesn't exist`.

<Callout type="info">

Data type constraints are not yet supported in the [`schema.assert()`](/querying/schema#assert) procedure.

</Callout>


### Example

If the database is used to hold basic information about a person like their name and age
you can enforce the name to be a string and the age to be an integer by running the following queries:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT n.name IS TYPED STRING;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT n.age IS TYPED INTEGER;
```

Then `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` should return the following result:

```
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-------------+
| constraint type | label        | properties      |  data_type  |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-------------|
| data_type       | Person       | name            |   STRING    |
| data_type       | Person       | age             |   INTEGER   |
+-----------------+--------------+-----------------+-------------|
```

Creating a person with
```cypher
CREATE (:Person {age:22});
```
and trying to violate the data type constraints by setting the age of a person to a string with:
```cypher
MATCH (n) SET n.age = 'age';
```
will yield the error `IS TYPED INTEGER violation on Person(age)`.

To drop the created constraints, use the following queries:

```cypher
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT n.name IS TYPED STRING;
DROP CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT n.age IS TYPED INTEGER;
```

Now, `SHOW CONSTRAINT INFO;` returns an empty set.


## Drop all constraints

The `DROP ALL CONSTRAINTS` clause allows you to delete all constraints in your
database in a single operation. This includes all types of constraints:
- existence constraints
- unique constraints
- type constraints

```cypher
DROP ALL CONSTRAINTS;
```

## Schema-related procedures

You can also modify the constraints using the [`schema.assert()` procedure](/querying/schema#assert).

### Delete all constraints via schema.assert

<Callout type="info">

The `DROP ALL CONSTRAINTS` command should be preferred over the [`schema.assert()`](/querying/schema#assert) procedure for removing all constraints, as it works on all constraint types.

</Callout>

To delete all constraints, use the [`schema.assert()`](/querying/schema#assert) procedure with the following parameters:
- `indices_map` = map of key-value pairs of all indexes in the database
- `unique_constraints` = `{}`
- `existence_constraints` = `{}`
- `drop_existing` = `true`

Here is an example of indexes and constraints set in the database:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT EXISTS (n.name);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.id IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.surname IS UNIQUE;
CREATE INDEX ON :Student(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :Student;
```

There are three uniqueness and one existence constraint. Additionally, there are
two indexes - one label and one label-property index. To delete all constraints, run:

```cypher
CALL schema.assert({Student: ["", "id"]}, {}, {}, true) 
YIELD action, key, keys, label, unique
RETURN action, key, keys, label, unique;
```

The above query removes all existing constraints because the empty
`unique_constraints` and `existence_constraints` maps indicate that no
constraints should be asserted as existing, while the `drop_existing` set to
`true` specifies that all existing constraints should be dropped.

Primarily, the [`assert()`](querying/schema#assert) procedure is used to define a schema, but it's also
useful if you need to [delete all node indexes](/fundamentals/indexes#delete-all-node-indexes) or [delete all node indexes and constraints](/querying/schema#delete-all-indexes-and-constraints).

## Recovery

Existence and unique [constraints](/fundamentals/constraints), and indexes can be
recovered in parallel. To enable this behavior, set the
[`storage-parallel-schema-recovery`
configuration](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage) flag to `true`.
