pages/fundamentals/data-durability.mdx, before:

---
title: Data durability
description: Learn about data durability - an important aspect of making sure you keep your data secure, regardless of Memgraph's in-memory storage. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Data durability

Memgraph uses two mechanisms to ensure the durability of stored data and make
disaster recovery possible:

* write-ahead logging (WAL)
* periodic snapshot creation

These mechanisms generate **durability files** and save them in the respective
`wal` and `snapshots` folders in the **data directory**. Data directory stores
permanent data on disk. 

The default data directory path is `/var/lib/memgraph` but the path can be
changed by modifying the `--data-directory` configuration flag. To learn how to
modify configuration flags, head over to the
[Configuration](/database-management/configuration#changing-configuration-settings)
page.

With Memgraph Enterprise, the `data_directory` holds `databases` directory which
splits durability files by database name. The reason for that is the
multi-tenant architecture in Memgraph Enterprise, where the durability files for
each database are stored under `/data_directory/databases/<db_name>`. The
`databases` directory will exist even if you're not using the multi-tenancy
feature.

Durability files are deleted when certain events are triggered, for example,
exceeding the maximum number of snapshots, defined by the
`--storage-snapshot-retention-count=3` flag.

To prevent the deletion of durability files, you need to lock the `data
directory`, and enable it again by unlocking the directory.

To manage this behavior, use the following queries:

```cypher
LOCK DATA DIRECTORY;
UNLOCK DATA DIRECTORY;
```

To show the status of the data directory, run:

```cypher
DATA DIRECTORY LOCK STATUS;
```

To encrypt the data directory, use
[LUKS](https://gitlab.com/cryptsetup/cryptsetup/) as it works with Memgraph out
of the box and is undetectable from the application perspective so it shouldn't
break any existing applications. 

## Durability mechanisms

To configure the durability mechanisms, check their respective [configuration
flags](/database-management/configuration#storage).

### Write-ahead logging

Write-ahead logging (WAL) is a technique applied in providing **atomicity** and
**durability** to database systems. 

In the default IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL [storage
mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#storage-modes), Memgraph creates a
`Delta` object each time data is changed. By using Deltas, Memgraph creates
write-ahead logs. Each database modification is therefore recorded in a log file
before being written to the DB, and in the end the log file contains all steps
needed to reconstruct the DB’s most recent state.

Memgraph has WAL enabled by default. To switch it on and off, use the boolean
`--storage-wal-enabled` flag. For other WAL-related flags check the [configuration
reference guide](/database-management/configuration#storage).

By default, WAL files are located at `/var/lib/memgraph/wal`.

### Snapshots
Snapshots provide a faster way to restore the states of your database. Snapshots
are created periodically based on the value defined with the
`--storage-snapshot-interval` configuration flags, as well as upon exit based
on the value of the `--storage-snapshot-on-exit` configuration flag.  When a
snapshot creation is triggered, the entire data storage is written to the drive.
Nodes and relationships are divided into groups called batches.

On startup, the database state is recovered from the most recent snapshot file.
Memgraph can read the data and build the indexes on multiple threads, using
batches as a parallelization unit: each thread will recover one batch at a time
until there are no unhandled batches.

This means the same batch size might not be suitable for every dataset. A
smaller dataset might require a smaller batch size to utilize a multi-threaded
processor, while bigger datasets might use bigger batches to minimize the
synchronization between the worker threads. Therefore, the size of batches and
the number of used threads [are
configurable](/database-management/configuration#storage) similarly to
other durability-related settings.

The timestamp of the snapshot is compared with the latest update recorded in the
WAL file and, if the snapshot is less recent, the state of the DB will be
recovered using the WAL file.

Memgraph has snapshot creation enabled by default. You can configure the exact
snapshot creation behavior by [defining the relevant flags](/database-management/configuration#storage).
Alternatively, you can make one directly by running the following query:

```opencypher
CREATE SNAPSHOT;
```

By default, snapshot files are saved inside the `var/lib/memgraph/snapshots` directory.

To query which snapshots currently exist in the data directory, execute:
```opencypher
SHOW SNAPSHOTS;
```

### Periodic snapshots

`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode supports periodic snapshot creation. The interval
can be set at startup via the `--storage-snapshot-interval` flag or at run-time
via the database settings:

```opencypher
SET DATABASE SETTING "storage.snapshot.interval" TO "1200";
SET DATABASE SETTING "storage.snapshot.interval" TO "* * 12 * * *";
SET DATABASE SETTING "storage.snapshot.interval" TO "";
```

<Callout type="info">
Changing the configuration settings depends on the way you are using Memgraph,
so please refer to the [configuration
docs](/database-management/configuration#changing-configuration) for more
information.
</Callout>

If the interval string is an integer, then it's treated as the execution period
in seconds. Interval can also be defined as a [CRON](https://crontab.guru/)
expression. The expression must define seconds in addition to the usual five
cron fields. By setting the value to an empty string, the background process is
paused and any currently active snapshot creation will finish. Please note that
defining the interval via a CRON expression is an [Enterprise
feature](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise).

If the database is started in or migrated into `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode, the
background thread will pause and no snapshots will be created as long as that
mode is active. The job will continue with the last defined interval when the
storage mode is changed to `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode.

<Callout type="warning">
Snapshots and WAL files are presently not compatible between Memgraph versions.
</Callout>


## Storage modes

Memgraph has the option to work in `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`,
`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` or `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` [storage
modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage.md).

Memgraph always starts in the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode in which it creates
periodic snapshots and write-ahead logging as durability mechanisms, and also
enables creating manual snapshots.

In the `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode, Memgraph offers no periodic snapshots and
write-ahead logging. Users can create a snapshot with the `CREATE SNAPSHOT;`
Cypher query. During the process of snapshot creation, other transactions will
be prevented from starting until the snapshot creation is completed.

In the `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` mode, durability is supported by RocksDB since it
keeps its own
[WAL](https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb/wiki/Write-Ahead-Log-%28WAL%29) files.
Memgraph persists the metadata used in the implementation of the on-disk
storage.

Commit message:

Create snapshot parallelization (#1243)
* touch

* parallel flags and info

* Apply suggestions from code review

---------

Co-authored-by: Matea Pesic <80577904+matea16@users.noreply.github.com>

pages/fundamentals/data-durability.mdx, after:

---
title: Data durability
description: Learn about data durability - an important aspect of making sure you keep your data secure, regardless of Memgraph's in-memory storage. 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Data durability

Memgraph uses two mechanisms to ensure the durability of stored data and make
disaster recovery possible:

* write-ahead logging (WAL)
* periodic snapshot creation

These mechanisms generate **durability files** and save them in the respective
`wal` and `snapshots` folders in the **data directory**. Data directory stores
permanent data on disk. 

The default data directory path is `/var/lib/memgraph` but the path can be
changed by modifying the `--data-directory` configuration flag. To learn how to
modify configuration flags, head over to the
[Configuration](/database-management/configuration#changing-configuration-settings)
page.

With Memgraph Enterprise, the `data_directory` holds `databases` directory which
splits durability files by database name. The reason for that is the
multi-tenant architecture in Memgraph Enterprise, where the durability files for
each database are stored under `/data_directory/databases/<db_name>`. The
`databases` directory will exist even if you're not using the multi-tenancy
feature.

Durability files are deleted when certain events are triggered, for example,
exceeding the maximum number of snapshots, defined by the
`--storage-snapshot-retention-count=3` flag.

To prevent the deletion of durability files, you need to lock the `data
directory`, and enable it again by unlocking the directory.

To manage this behavior, use the following queries:

```cypher
LOCK DATA DIRECTORY;
UNLOCK DATA DIRECTORY;
```

To show the status of the data directory, run:

```cypher
DATA DIRECTORY LOCK STATUS;
```

To encrypt the data directory, use
[LUKS](https://gitlab.com/cryptsetup/cryptsetup/) as it works with Memgraph out
of the box and is undetectable from the application perspective so it shouldn't
break any existing applications. 

## Durability mechanisms

To configure the durability mechanisms, check their respective [configuration
flags](/database-management/configuration#storage).

### Write-ahead logging

Write-ahead logging (WAL) is a technique applied in providing **atomicity** and
**durability** to database systems. 

In the default IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL [storage
mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#storage-modes), Memgraph creates a
`Delta` object each time data is changed. By using Deltas, Memgraph creates
write-ahead logs. Each database modification is therefore recorded in a log file
before being written to the DB, and in the end the log file contains all steps
needed to reconstruct the DB’s most recent state.

Memgraph has WAL enabled by default. To switch it on and off, use the boolean
`--storage-wal-enabled` flag. For other WAL-related flags check the [configuration
reference guide](/database-management/configuration#storage).

By default, WAL files are located at `/var/lib/memgraph/wal`.

### Snapshots
Snapshots provide a faster way to restore the states of your database. Snapshots
are created periodically based on the value defined with the
`--storage-snapshot-interval` configuration flags, as well as upon exit based
on the value of the `--storage-snapshot-on-exit` configuration flag.  When a
snapshot creation is triggered, the entire data storage is written to the drive.
Nodes and relationships are divided into groups called batches.

Snapshot creation can be made faster by using **multiple threads**. See [Parallelized execution](#parallelized-execution) for more information.

On startup, the database state is recovered from the most recent snapshot file.
Memgraph can read the data and build the indexes on multiple threads, using
batches as a parallelization unit: each thread will recover one batch at a time
until there are no unhandled batches.

This means the same batch size might not be suitable for every dataset. A
smaller dataset might require a smaller batch size to utilize a multi-threaded
processor, while bigger datasets might use bigger batches to minimize the
synchronization between the worker threads. Therefore, the size of batches and
the number of used threads [are
configurable](/database-management/configuration#storage) similarly to
other durability-related settings.

The timestamp of the snapshot is compared with the latest update recorded in the
WAL file and, if the snapshot is less recent, the state of the DB will be
recovered using the WAL file.

Memgraph has snapshot creation enabled by default. You can configure the exact
snapshot creation behavior by [defining the relevant flags](/database-management/configuration#storage).
Alternatively, you can make one directly by running the following query:

```opencypher
CREATE SNAPSHOT;
```

By default, snapshot files are saved inside the `var/lib/memgraph/snapshots` directory.

To query which snapshots currently exist in the data directory, execute:
```opencypher
SHOW SNAPSHOTS;
```

### Periodic snapshots

`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode supports periodic snapshot creation. The interval
can be set at startup via the `--storage-snapshot-interval` flag or at run-time
via the database settings:

```opencypher
SET DATABASE SETTING "storage.snapshot.interval" TO "1200";
SET DATABASE SETTING "storage.snapshot.interval" TO "* * 12 * * *";
SET DATABASE SETTING "storage.snapshot.interval" TO "";
```

<Callout type="info">
Changing the configuration settings depends on the way you are using Memgraph,
so please refer to the [configuration
docs](/database-management/configuration#changing-configuration) for more
information.
</Callout>

If the interval string is an integer, then it's treated as the execution period
in seconds. Interval can also be defined as a [CRON](https://crontab.guru/)
expression. The expression must define seconds in addition to the usual five
cron fields. By setting the value to an empty string, the background process is
paused and any currently active snapshot creation will finish. Please note that
defining the interval via a CRON expression is an [Enterprise
feature](/database-management/enabling-memgraph-enterprise).

If the database is started in or migrated into `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode, the
background thread will pause and no snapshots will be created as long as that
mode is active. The job will continue with the last defined interval when the
storage mode is changed to `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode.

<Callout type="warning">
Snapshots and WAL files are presently not compatible between Memgraph versions.
</Callout>

### Parallelized execution

Snapshot creation in Memgraph can be optimized using multiple threads, which significantly reduces the time required to create snapshots for large datasets. 

This behavior can be controlled using the following flags:
- `--storage-parallel-snapshot-creation`: This flag determines whether snapshot creation is performed in a multi-threaded fashion. By default, it is set to `false`. To enable parallelized execution, set this flag to `true`.
- `--storage-snapshot-thread-count`: This flag specifies the number of threads to be used for snapshot creation. By default, Memgraph uses the system's maximum thread count. You can override this value to fine-tune performance based on your system's resources.

When parallelized execution is enabled, Memgraph divides the data into batches, where the batch size is defined via `--storage-items-per-batch`. The optimal batch size and thread count may vary depending on the dataset size and system configuration.

## Storage modes

Memgraph has the option to work in `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`,
`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` or `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` [storage
modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage.md).

Memgraph always starts in the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode in which it creates
periodic snapshots and write-ahead logging as durability mechanisms, and also
enables creating manual snapshots.

In the `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` mode, Memgraph offers no periodic snapshots and
write-ahead logging. Users can create a snapshot with the `CREATE SNAPSHOT;`
Cypher query. During the process of snapshot creation, other transactions will
be prevented from starting until the snapshot creation is completed.

In the `ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` mode, durability is supported by RocksDB since it
keeps its own
[WAL](https://github.com/facebook/rocksdb/wiki/Write-Ahead-Log-%28WAL%29) files.
Memgraph persists the metadata used in the implementation of the on-disk
storage.
