pages/fundamentals/indexes.mdx, before:

---
title: Indexes
description: Explore how to work with indexes in Memgraph. An overview for you to understand the functionality and application of indexes.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Indexes

When running queries, you want to get results as soon as possible. In the
worst-case scenario, during query execution, all nodes need to be checked to find
a match.

This is how [the query plan](/querying/query-plan) looks when there is
no index on the data:

```copy=false
memgraph> EXPLAIN MATCH (n:Person {prop: 1}) RETURN n;
+-----------------------------------+
| QUERY PLAN                        |
+-----------------------------------+
| " * Produce {n}"                  |
| " * Filter (n :Person), {n.prop}" |
| " * ScanAllByLabel (n :Person)"   |
| " * Once"                         |
+-----------------------------------+
```

Notice the `ScanAllByLabel` operations. By creating indexes, query execution
can be much faster because indexes partition data with a key. When a query is
executed, the engine first checks if there is an index, and instead of
explicitly checking every node, it can just check the indexed ones, making
retrieving indexed data more efficient.

The following query creates an index on a property of a certain label:

```cypher
CREATE INDEX ON :Person(prop);
```

[The query plan](/querying/query-plan) of a query matching that
specific node and property:

```nocopy
memgraph> EXPLAIN MATCH (n:Person {prop: 1}) RETURN n;
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| QUERY PLAN                                          |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| " * Produce {n}"                                    |
| " * ScanAllByLabelPropertyValue (n :Person {prop})" |
| " * Once"                                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
```

The `ScanAllByLabel` operations have been replaced by
`ScanAllByLabelPropertyValue`, a more efficient operation.

But there are also some downsides to indexing:

- each index requires extra storage (memory)
- indexes slow down write operations to the database.

It is important to choose the right data to create indexes on, as indexing all
of the content will not improve the database speed.

The structures in the index are dynamically updated on modifications or
insertions of new nodes, slowing down the write operations.

Indexing won't bring any improvements on properties that are mostly of the same
value, as they have no proper distinguishers.

For the same reason, indexing certain data types will not bring any significant performance
gain. For example, for properties with boolean values, the time will be cut in half.

In addition to the indexes mentioned below, Memgraph also supports vector and text indexes. Due to their fundamentally different nature, these indexes have dedicated documentation pages.
To learn how to set them up and use them effectively, refer to the [vector search documentation](/querying/vector-search) and [text search documentation](/querying/text-search).

## Create an index

Indexes are not created automatically.

You can explicitly create indexes on a data with a specific label or
label-property combination using the `CREATE INDEX ON` syntax or `CREATE EDGE INDEX ON` syntax in the case of edge-type indexes.

### Label index

To optimize queries that fetch nodes by label, you need to create a label index:

```cypher
CREATE INDEX ON :Person;
```

Creating an index will optimize the following type of queries:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Person) RETURN n;
```

### Label-property index

To optimize queries that fetch nodes with a certain label and property
combination, you need to create a label-property index. For the best
performance, create an index on properties containing unique integer values.

<Callout type="warning">

Creating a label-property index will not create a label index!

</Callout>

For example, to index nodes that are labeled as `:Person` and have a property
named `age`:

```cypher
CREATE INDEX ON :Person(age);
```

Creating an index will optimize the queries that need to match a specific label
and property combination:

```cypher
MATCH (n :Person {age: 42}) RETURN n;
```

Index will also optimize queries that filter labels and properties with the
`WHERE` clause:

```cypher
MATCH (n) WHERE n:Person AND n.age = 42 RETURN n;
```

Be aware that since the filter inside `WHERE` can contain any kind of an
expression, the expression can be so complicated that the index doesn't get used.
If there is any suspicion that an index isn't used, we recommend writing
labels and properties inside the `MATCH` pattern.

### Edge-type index

To optimize queries that fetch only the edges by specific edge-types, you need
to create an edge-type index. Creating an edge-type index requires the
`--storage-properties-on-edges` flag to be set to true.

```cypher
CREATE EDGE INDEX ON :EDGE_TYPE;
```

Creating an edge-type index will optimize the following type of queries:

```cypher
MATCH ()-[r:EDGE_TYPE]->() RETURN r;
```

<Callout type="info">

If you need to access nodes of found edges, you can use the `startNode(r)` and `endNode(r)` functions.

Named parameters are not supported for edge-type indexes.

</Callout>

### Edge-type property index

To optimize queries that fetch only the edges by specific edge types and
properties, you need to create an edge-type property index. Creating an
edge-type property index requires the `--storage-properties-on-edges` flag to be
set to true.

```cypher
CREATE EDGE INDEX ON :EDGE_TYPE(property_name);
```

Creating an edge-type property index will optimize the following type of queries:

```cypher
MATCH ()-[r:EDGE_TYPE {property_name: value}]->() RETURN r;
```

<Callout type="info">

If you need to access nodes of found edges, you can use the `startNode(r)` and `endNode(r)` functions.

Named parameters are not supported for edge-type property indexes.

</Callout>

### Point index

Point index can be utilized for more performant spatial queries which use `WHERE point.distance()` or `WHERE point.withinbbox()`.

To create a point index run the following command:
```cypher
CREATE POINT INDEX ON :Label(property);
```

Here is an example of a query using `point.distance()`:
```cypher
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE point.distance(point({x:1, y:1}), node.property) < 1
RETURN node;
```

Here are the examples of queries using `point.withinbbox()`:
```cypher
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE NOT point.withinbbox(node.property, point({x:1, y:1}), point({x:2, y:2}))
RETURN node;
```

```cypher
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE point.withinbbox(node.property, point({x:1, y:1}), point({x:2, y:2})) = false
RETURN node;
```

<Callout type="info">

In Memgraph v2.21 point index couldn't be utilized with the `point.withinbbox()`
function. It could only be utilized with the `point.distance` function and to
use it, the comparison point needed to exist as a variable first. For example,
instead of:
```cypher
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE point.distance(point({x:1, y:1}), node.property) < 1
RETURN node;
```
you needed to use `WITH` statement:
```cypher
WITH point({x:1, y:1}) AS p
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE point.distance(p, node.property) < 1
RETURN node;
```
From Memgraph v2.22, it is no longer necessary to use the `WITH` statement for
index to be utilized. 
</Callout>

To drop the point index use:
```cypher
DROP POINT INDEX ON :Label(property);
```

### Analyze graph

When multiple label-property indexes exist, the database can sometimes select a
non-optimal index due to the data's distribution.

The [`ANALYZE GRAPH;`](/querying/performance-optimization#analyze-graph) query
calculates the distribution of property values so the database can select a more
optimal label-property index with the smallest average property value size. The
query is run only once after all indexes have been created and data inserted in
the database.


### Schema-related procedures

You can modify indexes using the [`schema.assert()` procedure](/querying/schema#assert).

### Speed comparison

Below is a comparison of the same query run without an index and with an index.
The query without an index took 0.015 seconds to execute, and the query with an
index 0.006 seconds.

```nocopy
memgraph> SHOW INDEX INFO;
Empty set (0.001 sec)

memgraph> MATCH (n:Person) WHERE n.name =~ ".*an$" RETURN n.name;
+-------------+
| n.name      |
+-------------+
| "Lillian"   |
| "Logan"     |
| "Susan"     |
| "Sebastian" |
+-------------+
4 rows in set (0.021 sec)

memgraph> CREATE INDEX ON :Person(name);
Empty set (0.015 sec)

memgraph> MATCH (n:Person) WHERE n.name =~ ".*an$" RETURN n.name;
+-------------+
| n.name      |
+-------------+
| "Lillian"   |
| "Logan"     |
| "Susan"     |
| "Sebastian" |
+-------------+
4 rows in set (0.006 sec)
```

## Show created indexes

To see all the information on the label, label-property, edge-type, edge-type
property and point indexes, run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW INDEX INFO;
```

The query displays a table holding the information on the indexes created,
ordered by index type, label, property and count.

To retrieve information about vector indexes, run the following query:

```
SHOW VECTOR INDEX INFO;
```

## Delete an index

Created indexes can be deleted using the following syntax:

```cypher
DROP INDEX ON :Label;
```

```cypher
DROP INDEX ON :Label(property);
```

```cypher
DROP EDGE INDEX ON :EDGE_TYPE;
```

These queries instruct all active transactions to abort as soon as possible.
Once all transactions have finished, the index will be deleted.

### Delete all node indexes

<Callout type="warning">
The `schema.assert()` procedure will not drop edge-type and point indexes. 
Our plan is to update it, and you can track the progress on our [GitHub](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/issues/2462). 
</Callout>

To delete all indexes, use the [`schema.assert()`](/querying/schema#assert) procedure with the following parameters:
- `indices_map` = `{}`
- `unique_constraints` = map of key-value pairs of all uniqueness constraints in the database
- `existence_constraints` = map of key-value pairs of all existence constraints in the database
- `drop_existing` = `true`

Here is an example of indexes and constraints set in the database:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT EXISTS (n.name);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.id IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.surname IS UNIQUE;
CREATE INDEX ON :Student(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :Student;
```

There are three uniqueness and one existence constraint. Additionally, there are
two indexes - one label and one label-property index. To delete all indexes, run:

```cypher
CALL schema.assert({}, {}, {}, true)
YIELD action, key, keys, label, unique
RETURN action, key, keys, label, unique;
```

The above query removes all existing indexes because the empty `indices_map`
indicates that no indexes should be asserted as existing, while the
`drop_existing` set to `true` specifies that all existing indexes should be
dropped.

Primarily, the [`assert()`](querying/schema#assert) procedure is used to define a schema, but it's also
useful if you need to [delete all constraints](/fundamentals/constraints#delete-all-constraints) or [delete all node indexes and constraints](/querying/schema#delete-all-node-indexes).

## Automatic index creation

<Callout>

Automatic index creation can only be used if the database has `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` [mode enabled](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#storage-modes).

</Callout>

Using the
[`storage-automatic-label-index-creation-enabled`](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage)
and
[`storage-automatic-edge-type-index-creation-enabled`](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage)
flags, it is possible to create label and edge-type indices automatically. Every
time the database encounters a label or edge-type that is currently not indexed,
it will create an index for that construct.

## Recovery

Existence and unique [constraints](/fundamentals/constraints), and indexes can be
recovered in parallel. To enable this behavior, set the
[`storage-parallel-schema-recovery`
configuration](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage) flag to `true`.

## Query optimization
### Analyze graph

The `ANALYZE GRAPH` will check and calculate certain properties of a graph so
that the database can choose a more optimal index or `MERGE` transaction.

Before the introduction of the `ANALYZE GRAPH` query, the database would choose
an index solely based on the number of indexed nodes. But if the number of nodes
is the only condition, in some cases the database would choose a non-optimal
index. Once the `ANALYZE GRAPH` is run, Memgraph analyzes the distribution of
property values and can select a more optimal label-property index, the one with
the smallest average property value size.

The average property value's group size directly represents the database's
expected number of hits which can be used to estimate the query's cost. When the
average group size is the same, the chi-squared statistic is used to measure how
close the distribution of property-value group size is to the uniform
distribution. The index with a distribution closest to the uniform distribution
is selected.

$
\chi^2 = \sum_{i}\frac{(E_i-O_i)^2}{E_i}
$

Upon running the `ANALYZE GRAPH` query, Memgraph also check the node degree of
every indexed nodes and calculates the average degree. By having these values,
Memgraph can make a more optimal `MERGE` expansion and improve performance. It's
always better to perform a `MERGE` by expanding from the node that has a lower
degree than the connecting node.

The `ANALYZE GRAPH;` command should be run only once after all indexes have been
created and nodes inserted in the database. In rare situations when one property
is set on many more nodes than another property, choosing an index based on
average group size and uniform distribution would be misleading. That's why the
database always selects the label-property index with >= 10x fewer nodes than
the other label-property index.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Calculate the statistic</h4>}

Run the following query to calculate the statistics:

```cypher
ANALYZE GRAPH;
```

The query will iterate over all label and label-property indexes in the database
and calculate the average group size, chi-squared statistic and avg degree for
each one, then return the following output:

| label | property | num estimation nodes | num groups | avg group size | chi-squared value | avg degree
| ----- | -------- | -------------------- | ---------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ----------
| index's label | index's property | number of nodes used for estimation | number of distinct values the property contains | average group size of property's values | value of the chi-squared statistic | average degree of the indexed nodes

Once the necessary information is obtained, Memgraph can choose the optimal
index and `MERGE` expansion. If you don't want to run the analysis on all labels,
you can specify which labels to use by adding the labels to the query:

```cypher
ANALYZE GRAPH ON LABELS :Label1, :Label2;
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Delete statistic</h4>}

Information about the graph is persistent between instance reruns as is
recovered as all the other data, using [snapshots and WAL
files](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup). If you want the database to
ignore information about the average group size, the chi-squared statistic and
the average degree, the existing statistic can be deleted by running:

```cypher
ANALYZE GRAPH DELETE STATISTICS;
```

The results will contain all label-property indexes that were successfully deleted:

| label | property |
| ----- | -------- |
| index's label | index's property |

Specific labels can be specified with the construct `ON LABELS`:

```cypher
ANALYZE GRAPH ON LABELS :Label1 DELETE STATISTICS;
```


### Index hinting

When executing a query, Memgraph query planner needs to decide where in the query it should
start matching. To get the optimal match, it checks the `MATCH` clause conditions
and finds the index that's likely to be the best choice, if there are multiple indexes
to choose from.

However, the selected index might not always be the best one. Sometimes, there
are multiple candidate indexes, and the query planner picks the suboptimal one
from a performance point of view.

With **index hinting**, you can instruct the planner to use specific index(es)
(if possible) in the query that follows. Here is the syntax for such query:

```cypher
USING INDEX :Label, :Label2 ...;
```

```cypher
USING INDEX :Label(property) ...;
```

It is also possible to specify multiple hints separated with comma. In that
case, the planner will apply the first hint that is applicable for a given
match.

An example of selecting an index with `USING INDEX`:
```
USING INDEX :Person(name)
MATCH (n:Person {name: 'John', gender: 'male'})
RETURN n;
```

<Callout type="warning">

Overriding planner behavior with index hints should be used with caution, and
only by experienced developers and/or database administrators, as poor index
choice may cause queries to perform poorly.

</Callout>

## Underlying implementation

The central part of Memgraph's index data structure is a highly concurrent [skip
list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skip_list). Skip lists are probabilistic
data structures that allow fast search within an ordered sequence of elements.
The structure itself is built in layers, where the bottom layer is an ordinary
linked list that preserves the order. Each higher level can be imagined as a
highway for layers below.

The implementation details behind skip list operations are well documented in
the literature and are out of the scope of this document. Nevertheless, we believe
that it is important for more advanced users to understand the following
implications of this data structure (`n` denotes the current number of elements
in a skip list):

- The average insertion time is `O(log(n))`
- The average deletion time is `O(log(n))`
- The average search time is `O(log(n))`
- The average memory consumption is `O(n)`

When it comes to label-property indexes, Memgraph stores a list of specific
properties that are used in label-property indexes. This list is ordered to make
the search faster. All property types can be ordered. First, they are ordered
based on the type and then within that type.

Commit message:

wip: Added stub for what will be composite index docs

pages/fundamentals/indexes.mdx, after:

---
title: Indexes
description: Explore how to work with indexes in Memgraph. An overview for you to understand the functionality and application of indexes.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Indexes

When running queries, you want to get results as soon as possible. In the
worst-case scenario, during query execution, all nodes need to be checked to find
a match.

This is how [the query plan](/querying/query-plan) looks when there is
no index on the data:

```copy=false
memgraph> EXPLAIN MATCH (n:Person {prop: 1}) RETURN n;
+-----------------------------------+
| QUERY PLAN                        |
+-----------------------------------+
| " * Produce {n}"                  |
| " * Filter (n :Person), {n.prop}" |
| " * ScanAllByLabel (n :Person)"   |
| " * Once"                         |
+-----------------------------------+
```

Notice the `ScanAllByLabel` operations. By creating indexes, query execution
can be much faster because indexes partition data with a key. When a query is
executed, the engine first checks if there is an index, and instead of
explicitly checking every node, it can just check the indexed ones, making
retrieving indexed data more efficient.

The following query creates an index on a property of a certain label:

```cypher
CREATE INDEX ON :Person(prop);
```

[The query plan](/querying/query-plan) of a query matching that
specific node and property:

```nocopy
memgraph> EXPLAIN MATCH (n:Person {prop: 1}) RETURN n;
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| QUERY PLAN                                          |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
| " * Produce {n}"                                    |
| " * ScanAllByLabelPropertyValue (n :Person {prop})" |
| " * Once"                                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------+
```

The `ScanAllByLabel` operations have been replaced by
`ScanAllByLabelPropertyValue`, a more efficient operation.

But there are also some downsides to indexing:

- each index requires extra storage (memory)
- indexes slow down write operations to the database.

It is important to choose the right data to create indexes on, as indexing all
of the content will not improve the database speed.

The structures in the index are dynamically updated on modifications or
insertions of new nodes, slowing down the write operations.

Indexing won't bring any improvements on properties that are mostly of the same
value, as they have no proper distinguishers.

For the same reason, indexing certain data types will not bring any significant performance
gain. For example, for properties with boolean values, the time will be cut in half.

In addition to the indexes mentioned below, Memgraph also supports vector and text indexes. Due to their fundamentally different nature, these indexes have dedicated documentation pages.
To learn how to set them up and use them effectively, refer to the [vector search documentation](/querying/vector-search) and [text search documentation](/querying/text-search).

## Create an index

Indexes are not created automatically.

You can explicitly create indexes on a data with a specific label or
label-property combination using the `CREATE INDEX ON` syntax or `CREATE EDGE INDEX ON` syntax in the case of edge-type indexes.

### Label index

To optimize queries that fetch nodes by label, you need to create a label index:

```cypher
CREATE INDEX ON :Person;
```

Creating an index will optimize the following type of queries:

```cypher
MATCH (n:Person) RETURN n;
```

### Label-property index

To optimize queries that fetch nodes with a certain label and property
combination, you need to create a label-property index. For the best
performance, create an index on properties containing unique integer values.

<Callout type="warning">

Creating a label-property index will not create a label index!

</Callout>

For example, to index nodes that are labeled as `:Person` and have a property
named `age`:

```cypher
CREATE INDEX ON :Person(age);
```

Creating an index will optimize the queries that need to match a specific label
and property combination:

```cypher
MATCH (n :Person {age: 42}) RETURN n;
```

Index will also optimize queries that filter labels and properties with the
`WHERE` clause:

```cypher
MATCH (n) WHERE n:Person AND n.age = 42 RETURN n;
```

Be aware that since the filter inside `WHERE` can contain any kind of an
expression, the expression can be so complicated that the index doesn't get used.
If there is any suspicion that an index isn't used, we recommend writing
labels and properties inside the `MATCH` pattern.

### Label-properties (composite) index

An index on a label and one or more properties is called a composite index. 

### Edge-type index

To optimize queries that fetch only the edges by specific edge-types, you need
to create an edge-type index. Creating an edge-type index requires the
`--storage-properties-on-edges` flag to be set to true.

```cypher
CREATE EDGE INDEX ON :EDGE_TYPE;
```

Creating an edge-type index will optimize the following type of queries:

```cypher
MATCH ()-[r:EDGE_TYPE]->() RETURN r;
```

<Callout type="info">

If you need to access nodes of found edges, you can use the `startNode(r)` and `endNode(r)` functions.

Named parameters are not supported for edge-type indexes.

</Callout>

### Edge-type property index

To optimize queries that fetch only the edges by specific edge types and
properties, you need to create an edge-type property index. Creating an
edge-type property index requires the `--storage-properties-on-edges` flag to be
set to true.

```cypher
CREATE EDGE INDEX ON :EDGE_TYPE(property_name);
```

Creating an edge-type property index will optimize the following type of queries:

```cypher
MATCH ()-[r:EDGE_TYPE {property_name: value}]->() RETURN r;
```

<Callout type="info">

If you need to access nodes of found edges, you can use the `startNode(r)` and `endNode(r)` functions.

Named parameters are not supported for edge-type property indexes.

</Callout>

### Point index

Point index can be utilized for more performant spatial queries which use `WHERE point.distance()` or `WHERE point.withinbbox()`.

To create a point index run the following command:
```cypher
CREATE POINT INDEX ON :Label(property);
```

Here is an example of a query using `point.distance()`:
```cypher
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE point.distance(point({x:1, y:1}), node.property) < 1
RETURN node;
```

Here are the examples of queries using `point.withinbbox()`:
```cypher
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE NOT point.withinbbox(node.property, point({x:1, y:1}), point({x:2, y:2}))
RETURN node;
```

```cypher
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE point.withinbbox(node.property, point({x:1, y:1}), point({x:2, y:2})) = false
RETURN node;
```

<Callout type="info">

In Memgraph v2.21 point index couldn't be utilized with the `point.withinbbox()`
function. It could only be utilized with the `point.distance` function and to
use it, the comparison point needed to exist as a variable first. For example,
instead of:
```cypher
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE point.distance(point({x:1, y:1}), node.property) < 1
RETURN node;
```
you needed to use `WITH` statement:
```cypher
WITH point({x:1, y:1}) AS p
MATCH (node:Label) WHERE point.distance(p, node.property) < 1
RETURN node;
```
From Memgraph v2.22, it is no longer necessary to use the `WITH` statement for
index to be utilized. 
</Callout>

To drop the point index use:
```cypher
DROP POINT INDEX ON :Label(property);
```

### Analyze graph

When multiple label-property indexes exist, the database can sometimes select a
non-optimal index due to the data's distribution.

The [`ANALYZE GRAPH;`](/querying/performance-optimization#analyze-graph) query
calculates the distribution of property values so the database can select a more
optimal label-property index with the smallest average property value size. The
query is run only once after all indexes have been created and data inserted in
the database.


### Schema-related procedures

You can modify indexes using the [`schema.assert()` procedure](/querying/schema#assert).

### Speed comparison

Below is a comparison of the same query run without an index and with an index.
The query without an index took 0.015 seconds to execute, and the query with an
index 0.006 seconds.

```nocopy
memgraph> SHOW INDEX INFO;
Empty set (0.001 sec)

memgraph> MATCH (n:Person) WHERE n.name =~ ".*an$" RETURN n.name;
+-------------+
| n.name      |
+-------------+
| "Lillian"   |
| "Logan"     |
| "Susan"     |
| "Sebastian" |
+-------------+
4 rows in set (0.021 sec)

memgraph> CREATE INDEX ON :Person(name);
Empty set (0.015 sec)

memgraph> MATCH (n:Person) WHERE n.name =~ ".*an$" RETURN n.name;
+-------------+
| n.name      |
+-------------+
| "Lillian"   |
| "Logan"     |
| "Susan"     |
| "Sebastian" |
+-------------+
4 rows in set (0.006 sec)
```

## Show created indexes

To see all the information on the label, label-property, edge-type, edge-type
property and point indexes, run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW INDEX INFO;
```

The query displays a table holding the information on the indexes created,
ordered by index type, label, property and count.

To retrieve information about vector indexes, run the following query:

```
SHOW VECTOR INDEX INFO;
```

## Delete an index

Created indexes can be deleted using the following syntax:

```cypher
DROP INDEX ON :Label;
```

```cypher
DROP INDEX ON :Label(property);
```

```cypher
DROP EDGE INDEX ON :EDGE_TYPE;
```

These queries instruct all active transactions to abort as soon as possible.
Once all transactions have finished, the index will be deleted.

### Delete all node indexes

<Callout type="warning">
The `schema.assert()` procedure will not drop edge-type and point indexes. 
Our plan is to update it, and you can track the progress on our [GitHub](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/issues/2462). 
</Callout>

To delete all indexes, use the [`schema.assert()`](/querying/schema#assert) procedure with the following parameters:
- `indices_map` = `{}`
- `unique_constraints` = map of key-value pairs of all uniqueness constraints in the database
- `existence_constraints` = map of key-value pairs of all existence constraints in the database
- `drop_existing` = `true`

Here is an example of indexes and constraints set in the database:

```cypher
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Person) ASSERT EXISTS (n.name);
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.id IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.email IS UNIQUE;
CREATE CONSTRAINT ON (n:Employee) ASSERT n.name, n.surname IS UNIQUE;
CREATE INDEX ON :Student(id);
CREATE INDEX ON :Student;
```

There are three uniqueness and one existence constraint. Additionally, there are
two indexes - one label and one label-property index. To delete all indexes, run:

```cypher
CALL schema.assert({}, {}, {}, true)
YIELD action, key, keys, label, unique
RETURN action, key, keys, label, unique;
```

The above query removes all existing indexes because the empty `indices_map`
indicates that no indexes should be asserted as existing, while the
`drop_existing` set to `true` specifies that all existing indexes should be
dropped.

Primarily, the [`assert()`](querying/schema#assert) procedure is used to define a schema, but it's also
useful if you need to [delete all constraints](/fundamentals/constraints#delete-all-constraints) or [delete all node indexes and constraints](/querying/schema#delete-all-node-indexes).

## Automatic index creation

<Callout>

Automatic index creation can only be used if the database has `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` [mode enabled](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage#storage-modes).

</Callout>

Using the
[`storage-automatic-label-index-creation-enabled`](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage)
and
[`storage-automatic-edge-type-index-creation-enabled`](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage)
flags, it is possible to create label and edge-type indices automatically. Every
time the database encounters a label or edge-type that is currently not indexed,
it will create an index for that construct.

## Recovery

Existence and unique [constraints](/fundamentals/constraints), and indexes can be
recovered in parallel. To enable this behavior, set the
[`storage-parallel-schema-recovery`
configuration](/configuration/configuration-settings#storage) flag to `true`.

## Query optimization
### Analyze graph

The `ANALYZE GRAPH` will check and calculate certain properties of a graph so
that the database can choose a more optimal index or `MERGE` transaction.

Before the introduction of the `ANALYZE GRAPH` query, the database would choose
an index solely based on the number of indexed nodes. But if the number of nodes
is the only condition, in some cases the database would choose a non-optimal
index. Once the `ANALYZE GRAPH` is run, Memgraph analyzes the distribution of
property values and can select a more optimal label-property index, the one with
the smallest average property value size.

The average property value's group size directly represents the database's
expected number of hits which can be used to estimate the query's cost. When the
average group size is the same, the chi-squared statistic is used to measure how
close the distribution of property-value group size is to the uniform
distribution. The index with a distribution closest to the uniform distribution
is selected.

$
\chi^2 = \sum_{i}\frac{(E_i-O_i)^2}{E_i}
$

Upon running the `ANALYZE GRAPH` query, Memgraph also check the node degree of
every indexed nodes and calculates the average degree. By having these values,
Memgraph can make a more optimal `MERGE` expansion and improve performance. It's
always better to perform a `MERGE` by expanding from the node that has a lower
degree than the connecting node.

The `ANALYZE GRAPH;` command should be run only once after all indexes have been
created and nodes inserted in the database. In rare situations when one property
is set on many more nodes than another property, choosing an index based on
average group size and uniform distribution would be misleading. That's why the
database always selects the label-property index with >= 10x fewer nodes than
the other label-property index.

{<h4 className="custom-header">Calculate the statistic</h4>}

Run the following query to calculate the statistics:

```cypher
ANALYZE GRAPH;
```

The query will iterate over all label and label-property indexes in the database
and calculate the average group size, chi-squared statistic and avg degree for
each one, then return the following output:

| label | property | num estimation nodes | num groups | avg group size | chi-squared value | avg degree
| ----- | -------- | -------------------- | ---------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ----------
| index's label | index's property | number of nodes used for estimation | number of distinct values the property contains | average group size of property's values | value of the chi-squared statistic | average degree of the indexed nodes

Once the necessary information is obtained, Memgraph can choose the optimal
index and `MERGE` expansion. If you don't want to run the analysis on all labels,
you can specify which labels to use by adding the labels to the query:

```cypher
ANALYZE GRAPH ON LABELS :Label1, :Label2;
```

{<h4 className="custom-header">Delete statistic</h4>}

Information about the graph is persistent between instance reruns as is
recovered as all the other data, using [snapshots and WAL
files](/configuration/data-durability-and-backup). If you want the database to
ignore information about the average group size, the chi-squared statistic and
the average degree, the existing statistic can be deleted by running:

```cypher
ANALYZE GRAPH DELETE STATISTICS;
```

The results will contain all label-property indexes that were successfully deleted:

| label | property |
| ----- | -------- |
| index's label | index's property |

Specific labels can be specified with the construct `ON LABELS`:

```cypher
ANALYZE GRAPH ON LABELS :Label1 DELETE STATISTICS;
```


### Index hinting

When executing a query, Memgraph query planner needs to decide where in the query it should
start matching. To get the optimal match, it checks the `MATCH` clause conditions
and finds the index that's likely to be the best choice, if there are multiple indexes
to choose from.

However, the selected index might not always be the best one. Sometimes, there
are multiple candidate indexes, and the query planner picks the suboptimal one
from a performance point of view.

With **index hinting**, you can instruct the planner to use specific index(es)
(if possible) in the query that follows. Here is the syntax for such query:

```cypher
USING INDEX :Label, :Label2 ...;
```

```cypher
USING INDEX :Label(property) ...;
```

It is also possible to specify multiple hints separated with comma. In that
case, the planner will apply the first hint that is applicable for a given
match.

An example of selecting an index with `USING INDEX`:
```
USING INDEX :Person(name)
MATCH (n:Person {name: 'John', gender: 'male'})
RETURN n;
```

<Callout type="warning">

Overriding planner behavior with index hints should be used with caution, and
only by experienced developers and/or database administrators, as poor index
choice may cause queries to perform poorly.

</Callout>

## Underlying implementation

The central part of Memgraph's index data structure is a highly concurrent [skip
list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skip_list). Skip lists are probabilistic
data structures that allow fast search within an ordered sequence of elements.
The structure itself is built in layers, where the bottom layer is an ordinary
linked list that preserves the order. Each higher level can be imagined as a
highway for layers below.

The implementation details behind skip list operations are well documented in
the literature and are out of the scope of this document. Nevertheless, we believe
that it is important for more advanced users to understand the following
implications of this data structure (`n` denotes the current number of elements
in a skip list):

- The average insertion time is `O(log(n))`
- The average deletion time is `O(log(n))`
- The average search time is `O(log(n))`
- The average memory consumption is `O(n)`

When it comes to label-property indexes, Memgraph stores a list of specific
properties that are used in label-property indexes. This list is ordered to make
the search faster. All property types can be ordered. First, they are ordered
based on the type and then within that type.
