---
title: Telemetry
description: Get acquainted with Memgraph's telemetry mechanism through our detailed documentation. A tool to augment your graph computing experience.
---

# Telemetry

Telemetry is an automated process that collects data at a remote point. The only
reason why Memgraph uses telemetry data is to improve its products by focusing
on areas important to users. Memgraph fully understands the need for user
privacy which is why the telemetry feature is completely optional and can be
**[fully disabled](#how-to-disable-telemetry)** before starting the database. 

This article serves to cultivate transparent communication with the developer
community. Your feedback is very much appreciated, and telemetry data is a way
of receiving such feedback. If you wish to get in touch with us, you can always
send us an email to [tech@memgraph.com](mailto:tech@memgraph.com) or join our
community on [Discord](https://www.discord.gg/memgraph).

## Data collected

While a Memgraph database instance is running and an open internet connection is
available, the following data will be sent to and stored on Memgraph's servers:

- **Information about the host machine**
    - CPU model
    - Memory information
    - Host OS
    - Kernel information
    

- **Database runtime information**
    - CPU usage
    - Memory usage
    - The number of nodes and relationships stored in the database
    - Event counters - For example, number of failed queries or `ScanAll` operator calls.
    - Query module calls - **Only the names** of the query module and procedure are recorded.

No personal information is sent in the process of collecting telemetry data.
Each database generates a unique identifier by which data coming from the same
database instance is grouped. This unique identifier is in no way connected to
other personal information about the user.

## Data usage

Telemetry data is used by Memgraph's developers for the purpose of developing
new functionalities and the general maintenance of products. By analyzing the
host machine environment and runtime information, products can be optimize to
better suit specific user needs.

For example, if there is a considerable number of users who regularly call
NetworkX query modules, more resources would be invested in the development of
similar new features and extending the support for implemented ones.

As is often the case, certain goals need to be prioritized. A data-driven
understanding of product usage will help memgraph prioritize features that are
more likely to benefit a larger subset of Memgraph users.

## Disable telemetry

Telemetry is **completely optional** and can be fully disabled when starting the
database. 

There are two ways to disable Memgraph's telemetry features:
- In the `/etc/memgraph/memgraph.conf` file change the setting
  `--telemetry-enabled=true` to `--telemetry-enabled=false`.
- Include `--telemetry-enabled=false` as a command-line argument when starting
  the database.