pages/fundamentals/transactions.mdx, before:

---
title: Transactions
description: Learn about handling transactions in Memgraph. Detailed documentation to ensure seamless operations for efficient graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Transactions

All Cypher queries are run within transactions, which means that all modification
made by a single query are held in memory by the transaction until the query
is successfully executed. The changes are then committed and visible to all
other transactions, users and systems. In the case of an error, the transaction
is rolled back and no changes are committed.

These automatic transactions are also called implicit transactions.

You can also create explicit transactions to execute multiple Cypher queries
in sequence, then commit them or roll them back.

If you want to switch between [storage
modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage/), there can't be any active
transactions. Memgraph will log a warning message if it finds any active
transactions, so set the log level to `WARNING` to see them. No other
transactions will take place during the switch between modes.

During transaction execution, an important property of a database is the
isolation level that defines how or when the changes made by one operation
become visible to others.

## Explicit transactions

To start a transaction, run the `BEGIN;` query.

All the following queries will be executed as a part of a single transaction.

If any of the queries fails, further queries will no longer be successfully
executed and it won't be possible to commit the transaction.

Commit successful transactions by executing the `COMMIT;` query. <br/>
Roll back unsuccessful transactions by executing the `ROLLBACK;` query.

The following query will find to nodes and adjust a certain relationship
property in order to check the results of a
[max_flow](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/max_flow) algorithm, then
rollback the change as this query was a part of an what-if analysis:

```console
BEGIN;
 
MATCH (e:E)-[r:CONNECTED_TO]->(f:F)
SET r.flow = 17;
 
MATCH (a:A), (f:F)
CALL max_flow.get_flow(a, f, “flow”) YIELD max_flow
RETURN max_flow;
 
ROLLBACK;
```

## Manage transactions

Memgraph can return information about running transactions and allow you to
terminate them.

### Show running transactions

To get information about running transaction execute the following query:

```cypher
SHOW TRANSACTIONS;
```
```console copy=false

memgraph> SHOW TRANSACTIONS;
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| username      | transaction_id              | query                                     | metadata       |
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| ""            | "9223372036854794885"       | ["CALL infinite.get() YIELD * REUTRN *;"] | {}             |
| ""            | "9223372036854794896"       | ["SHOW TRANSACTIONS"]                     | {}             |
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
```

By default, the users can see and terminate only the transactions they have
started. For all other transactions, the user must have the
[**TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT** privilege](/configuration/security) which the admin
assigns with the following query:

```cypher
GRANT TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT TO user;
```

The privilege to manage all the transactions running in Memgraph is revoked
using the following query:

```cypher
REVOKE TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT FROM user;
```

<Callout type="info"> 
When Memgraph is first started there is only one explicit
super-admin user that has all the privileges, including the
**TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT** privilege. The super-admin user is able to see all
transactions. 
</Callout>

If you are connecting to Memgraph using a client, you can pass additional
metadata when starting a transaction (if the client supports additional
metadata) which will be visible when running the `SHOW TRANSACTIONS;` query,
thus allowing you to identify each transaction precisely.

The Python example below demonstrates how to pass metadata for
both an implicit and explicit transaction:

```python
import neo4j

def main():
  driver = neo4j.GraphDatabase.driver("bolt://localhost:7687", auth=("user","pass"))

  s1 = driver.session()
  tx = s1.begin_transaction(metadata={"where":"in explicit tx", "my_uuid":1})
  tx.run("MATCH (n) RETURN n LIMIT 1")

  s2 = driver.session()
  query=neo4j.Query("SHOW TRANSACTIONS", metadata={"where":"in implicit tx", "my_uuid":2})
  print(s2.run(query).values())

  tx.close()
  s1.close()
  s2.close()

if __name__ == '__main__':
  main()
```

### Terminate transactions

To terminate one or more transactions, you need to open a new session and use
the following query:

```cypher
TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS "tid", "<tid2>", "<tid3>", ... ;
```

The `tid` is the transactional ID that can be seen using the `SHOW
TRANSACTIONS;` query.

The `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` query signalizes to the thread executing the
transaction that it should stop the execution. No violent interruption will
happen, and the whole system will stay in a consistent state. 


### Terminate custom procedures

If you want to be able to [terminate custom procedures](/custom-query-modules),
crucial parts of the code, such as `while` and `until` loops, or similar points
where the procedure might become costly, need to be preceded with
`CheckMustAbort()` function.

### Example

Managing transactions is done by establishing a new connection to the database.

<Tabs items={["Memgraph Lab", "mgconsole"]}>

  <Tab>

    If you are using **Memgraph Lab**, you can vertically split screens and open another
    Query Execution section.

  </Tab>
  <Tab>

    If you are using **mgconsole** on an instance running in a Docker container:

    1. Open a new terminal and find the CONTAINER ID of the Memgraph Docker container:

      ```
      docker ps
      ```

    2. Run the client: 

      ```
      docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID mgconsole
      ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

**Show and terminate transactions**

The output of the `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` command shows that a  query is
currently being run as part of the transaction ID "9223372036854794885".

```console copy=false

memgraph> SHOW TRANSACTIONS;
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| username      | transaction_id              | query                                     | metadata       |
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| ""            | "9223372036854794885"       | ["CALL infinite.get() YIELD * REUTRN *;"] | {}             |
| ""            | "9223372036854794896"       | ["SHOW TRANSACTIONS"]                     | {}             |
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
```

To terminate the transaction, run the following query:

```cypher
TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS "9223372036854794885";
```

Upon the transaction termination, the following confirmation will appear:

```console copy=false
memgraph> TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS "9223372036854794885";
+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| transaction_id        | killed                |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| "9223372036854794885" | true                  |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+
1 row in set (round trip in 0.000 sec)
```

The following message will appear in the session in which the infinite query was being run:

```console copy=flase
memgraph> CALL infinite.get() YIELD * REUTRN *; 
Client received exception: Transactions was asked to abort either because it was executing longer than time
specified or another user asked to abort it.
```

## Isolation levels

In database systems, isolation determines how transaction integrity is visible
to other users and systems.

A lower isolation level allows many users to access the same data at the same
time but increases the number of concurrency effects (such as dirty reads or
lost updates). A higher isolation level secures data consistency but requires
more system resources and increases the chances that one transaction will block
another.

Memgraph currently supports three isolation levels, from the highest to the
lowest:
 - SNAPSHOT_ISOLATION (default) - guarantees that all reads made in a
   transaction will see a consistent snapshot of the database, and the
   transaction itself will successfully commit only if no updates it has made
   conflict with any concurrent updates made since that snapshot.
 - READ_COMMITTED - guarantees that any data read was committed at the moment it
   is read.
 - READ_UNCOMMITTED - one transaction may read not yet committed changes made by
   other transactions.

To check the current isolation level run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` storage modes offers no isolation levels and no ACID
guarantees. Multiple transactions can write data to Memgraph simultaneously. One
transaction can therefore see all the changes from other transactions.

`ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode uses only snapshot isolation. 

### Set the isolation level

Memgraph can work in `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`, `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` or
`ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` [storage mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage).
`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` is the default mode in which Memgraph runs on startup.


When Memgraph is running in the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode you can change
the isolation level, change the `--isolation-level` [configuration
flag](/configuration/configuration-settings#other) to any of the supported
values.

You can also change the initially set isolation level when Memgraph is running
using the following query:

```cypher
SET <scope> TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL <isolation_level>
```

`<scope>` defines the scope to which the isolation level change should apply:
 - GLOBAL - apply the new isolation level globally
 - SESSION - apply the new isolation level only for the current session
 - NEXT - apply the new isolation level only for the next transaction in the current session

`<isolation_level>` defines the isolation level:
 - SNAPSHOT ISOLATION
 - READ COMMITTED
 - READ UNCOMMITTED

Commit message:

Add how constraints apply to multi-query transactions

pages/fundamentals/transactions.mdx, after:

---
title: Transactions
description: Learn about handling transactions in Memgraph. Detailed documentation to ensure seamless operations for efficient graph computing.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { Tabs, Tab } from 'nextra/components'

# Transactions

All Cypher queries are run within transactions, which means that all modification
made by a single query are held in memory by the transaction until the query
is successfully executed. The changes are then committed and visible to all
other transactions, users and systems. In the case of an error, the transaction
is rolled back and no changes are committed.

These automatic transactions are also called implicit transactions.

You can also create explicit transactions to execute multiple Cypher queries
in sequence, then commit them or roll them back.

If you want to switch between [storage
modes](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage/), there can't be any active
transactions. Memgraph will log a warning message if it finds any active
transactions, so set the log level to `WARNING` to see them. No other
transactions will take place during the switch between modes.

During transaction execution, an important property of a database is the
isolation level that defines how or when the changes made by one operation
become visible to others.

## Explicit transactions

To start a transaction, run the `BEGIN;` query.

All the following queries will be executed as a part of a single transaction.

If any of the queries fails during execution, further queries will no longer be
successfully executed and it won't be possible to commit the transaction. 
As active constraints are checked upon commit, multi-query transactions will be
committed as long as the database adheres to the constraints upon the execution
of the final query. 

Commit successful transactions by executing the `COMMIT;` query. <br/>
Roll back unsuccessful transactions by executing the `ROLLBACK;` query.

The following query will find to nodes and adjust a certain relationship
property in order to check the results of a
[max_flow](/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/max_flow) algorithm, then
rollback the change as this query was a part of an what-if analysis:

```console
BEGIN;
 
MATCH (e:E)-[r:CONNECTED_TO]->(f:F)
SET r.flow = 17;
 
MATCH (a:A), (f:F)
CALL max_flow.get_flow(a, f, “flow”) YIELD max_flow
RETURN max_flow;
 
ROLLBACK;
```

## Manage transactions

Memgraph can return information about running transactions and allow you to
terminate them.

### Show running transactions

To get information about running transaction execute the following query:

```cypher
SHOW TRANSACTIONS;
```
```console copy=false

memgraph> SHOW TRANSACTIONS;
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| username      | transaction_id              | query                                     | metadata       |
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| ""            | "9223372036854794885"       | ["CALL infinite.get() YIELD * REUTRN *;"] | {}             |
| ""            | "9223372036854794896"       | ["SHOW TRANSACTIONS"]                     | {}             |
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
```

By default, the users can see and terminate only the transactions they have
started. For all other transactions, the user must have the
[**TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT** privilege](/configuration/security) which the admin
assigns with the following query:

```cypher
GRANT TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT TO user;
```

The privilege to manage all the transactions running in Memgraph is revoked
using the following query:

```cypher
REVOKE TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT FROM user;
```

<Callout type="info"> 
When Memgraph is first started there is only one explicit
super-admin user that has all the privileges, including the
**TRANSACTION_MANAGEMENT** privilege. The super-admin user is able to see all
transactions. 
</Callout>

If you are connecting to Memgraph using a client, you can pass additional
metadata when starting a transaction (if the client supports additional
metadata) which will be visible when running the `SHOW TRANSACTIONS;` query,
thus allowing you to identify each transaction precisely.

The Python example below demonstrates how to pass metadata for
both an implicit and explicit transaction:

```python
import neo4j

def main():
  driver = neo4j.GraphDatabase.driver("bolt://localhost:7687", auth=("user","pass"))

  s1 = driver.session()
  tx = s1.begin_transaction(metadata={"where":"in explicit tx", "my_uuid":1})
  tx.run("MATCH (n) RETURN n LIMIT 1")

  s2 = driver.session()
  query=neo4j.Query("SHOW TRANSACTIONS", metadata={"where":"in implicit tx", "my_uuid":2})
  print(s2.run(query).values())

  tx.close()
  s1.close()
  s2.close()

if __name__ == '__main__':
  main()
```

### Terminate transactions

To terminate one or more transactions, you need to open a new session and use
the following query:

```cypher
TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS "tid", "<tid2>", "<tid3>", ... ;
```

The `tid` is the transactional ID that can be seen using the `SHOW
TRANSACTIONS;` query.

The `TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS` query signalizes to the thread executing the
transaction that it should stop the execution. No violent interruption will
happen, and the whole system will stay in a consistent state. 


### Terminate custom procedures

If you want to be able to [terminate custom procedures](/custom-query-modules),
crucial parts of the code, such as `while` and `until` loops, or similar points
where the procedure might become costly, need to be preceded with
`CheckMustAbort()` function.

### Example

Managing transactions is done by establishing a new connection to the database.

<Tabs items={["Memgraph Lab", "mgconsole"]}>

  <Tab>

    If you are using **Memgraph Lab**, you can vertically split screens and open another
    Query Execution section.

  </Tab>
  <Tab>

    If you are using **mgconsole** on an instance running in a Docker container:

    1. Open a new terminal and find the CONTAINER ID of the Memgraph Docker container:

      ```
      docker ps
      ```

    2. Run the client: 

      ```
      docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID mgconsole
      ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

**Show and terminate transactions**

The output of the `SHOW TRANSACTIONS` command shows that a  query is
currently being run as part of the transaction ID "9223372036854794885".

```console copy=false

memgraph> SHOW TRANSACTIONS;
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| username      | transaction_id              | query                                     | metadata       |
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
| ""            | "9223372036854794885"       | ["CALL infinite.get() YIELD * REUTRN *;"] | {}             |
| ""            | "9223372036854794896"       | ["SHOW TRANSACTIONS"]                     | {}             |
+---------------+-----------------------------+-------------------------------------------+----------------+
```

To terminate the transaction, run the following query:

```cypher
TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS "9223372036854794885";
```

Upon the transaction termination, the following confirmation will appear:

```console copy=false
memgraph> TERMINATE TRANSACTIONS "9223372036854794885";
+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| transaction_id        | killed                |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| "9223372036854794885" | true                  |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+
1 row in set (round trip in 0.000 sec)
```

The following message will appear in the session in which the infinite query was being run:

```console copy=flase
memgraph> CALL infinite.get() YIELD * REUTRN *; 
Client received exception: Transactions was asked to abort either because it was executing longer than time
specified or another user asked to abort it.
```

## Isolation levels

In database systems, isolation determines how transaction integrity is visible
to other users and systems.

A lower isolation level allows many users to access the same data at the same
time but increases the number of concurrency effects (such as dirty reads or
lost updates). A higher isolation level secures data consistency but requires
more system resources and increases the chances that one transaction will block
another.

Memgraph currently supports three isolation levels, from the highest to the
lowest:
 - SNAPSHOT_ISOLATION (default) - guarantees that all reads made in a
   transaction will see a consistent snapshot of the database, and the
   transaction itself will successfully commit only if no updates it has made
   conflict with any concurrent updates made since that snapshot.
 - READ_COMMITTED - guarantees that any data read was committed at the moment it
   is read.
 - READ_UNCOMMITTED - one transaction may read not yet committed changes made by
   other transactions.

To check the current isolation level run the following query:

```cypher
SHOW STORAGE INFO;
```

`IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL` storage modes offers no isolation levels and no ACID
guarantees. Multiple transactions can write data to Memgraph simultaneously. One
transaction can therefore see all the changes from other transactions.

`ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` storage mode uses only snapshot isolation. 

### Set the isolation level

Memgraph can work in `IN_MEMORY_ANALYTICAL`, `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` or
`ON_DISK_TRANSACTIONAL` [storage mode](/fundamentals/storage-memory-usage).
`IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` is the default mode in which Memgraph runs on startup.


When Memgraph is running in the `IN_MEMORY_TRANSACTIONAL` mode you can change
the isolation level, change the `--isolation-level` [configuration
flag](/configuration/configuration-settings#other) to any of the supported
values.

You can also change the initially set isolation level when Memgraph is running
using the following query:

```cypher
SET <scope> TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL <isolation_level>
```

`<scope>` defines the scope to which the isolation level change should apply:
 - GLOBAL - apply the new isolation level globally
 - SESSION - apply the new isolation level only for the current session
 - NEXT - apply the new isolation level only for the next transaction in the current session

`<isolation_level>` defines the isolation level:
 - SNAPSHOT ISOLATION
 - READ COMMITTED
 - READ UNCOMMITTED
